<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>IV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-4" epub:type="chapter">
			<header>
				<hgroup>
					<h2>
						<span epub:type="label">Part</span>
						<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</span>
					</h2>
					<p epub:type="title">Cowboy Yarns</p>
				</hgroup>
				<blockquote>
					<p>
						<span>The centipede runs across my head,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The vinegaroon crawls in my bed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Tarantulas jump and scorpions play,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The broncs are grazing far away,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The rattlesnake gives his warning cry,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the coyotes sing their lullaby,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>While I sleep soundly beneath the sky.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</header>
			<article epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h4><a id="OUT_WHERE_THE_WEST_BEGINS"/>OUT WHERE THE WEST BEGINS</h4>
				<div class="poem">
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">OUT where the handclasp's a little stronger,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Out where the smile dwells a little longer,<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">That's where the West begins;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Out where the sun is a little brighter,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Where the snows that fall are a trifle whiter,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Where the bonds of home are a wee bit tighter,<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">That's where the West begins.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Out where the skies are a trifle bluer,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Out where friendship's a little truer,<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">That's where the West begins;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Out where a fresher breeze is blowing,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Where there's laughter in every streamlet flowing,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Where there's more of reaping and less of sowing,<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">That's where the West begins.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Out where the world is in the making,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Where fewer hearts in despair are aching,<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">That's where the West begins;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Where there's more of singing and less of sighing,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Where there's more of giving and less of buying,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And a man makes friends without half trying,<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">That's where the West begins.<br/></span>
						<span class="i14">
							<i>Arthur Chapman.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
				</div>
				<hr class="major"/>
				<p class="newpoem">
					<span class="pagenum">
						<a id="Page_2">p. 2</a>
					</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3><a id="THE_SHALLOWS_OF_THE_FORD"/>THE SHALLOWS OF THE FORD</h3>
				<div class="poem">
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">DID you ever wait for daylight when the stars along the river<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Floated thick and white as snowflakes in the water deep and strange,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Till a whisper through the aspens made the current break and shiver<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">As the frosty edge of morning seemed to melt and spread and change?<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Once I waited, almost wishing that the dawn would never find me;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Saw the sun roll up the ranges like the glory of the Lord;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Was about to wake my pardner who was sleeping close behind me,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">When I saw the man we wanted spur his pony to the ford.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Saw the ripples of the shallows and the muddy streaks that followed,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">As the pony stumbled toward me in the narrows of the bend;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Saw the face I used to welcome, wild and watchful, lined and hollowed;<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_3">p. 3</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">And God knows I wished to warn him, for I once had called him friend.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">But an oath had come between us — I was paid by Law and Order;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He was outlaw, rustler, killer — so the border whisper ran;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Left his word in Caliente that he'd cross the Rio border —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Call me coward? But I hailed him — "Riding close to daylight, Dan!"<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Just a hair and he'd have got me, but my voice, and not the warning,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Caught his hand and held him steady; then he nodded, spoke my name,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Reined his pony round and fanned it in the bright and silent morning,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Back across the sunlit Rio up the trail on which he came.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">He had passed his word to cross it — I had passed my word to get him —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">We broke even and we knew it; 'twas a case of give and take<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">For old times. I could have killed him from the brush; instead, I let him<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Ride his trail — I turned — my pardner flung his arm and stretched awake;<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_4">p. 4</a>
						</span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Saw me standing in the open; pulled his gun and came beside me;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Asked a question with his shoulder as his left hand pointed toward<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Muddy streaks that thinned and vanished — not a word, but hard he eyed me<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">As the water cleared and sparkled in the shallows of the ford.<br/></span>
						<span class="i13">
							<i>Henry Herbert Knibbs.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
				</div>
				<hr class="major"/>
				<p class="newpoem">
					<span class="pagenum">
						<a id="Page_5">p. 5</a>
					</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3><a id="THE_DANCE_AT_SILVER_VALLEY"/>THE DANCE AT SILVER VALLEY</h3>
				<div class="poem">
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i2">
							<i>DON'T you hear the big spurs jingle?</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
						<span class="i2">
							<i>Don't you feel the red blood tingle?</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
						<span class="i2">
							<i>Be it smile or be it frown,</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
						<span class="i2">
							<i>Be it dance or be it fight,</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
						<span class="i2">
							<i>Broncho Bill has come to town</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
						<span class="i2">
							<i>To dance a dance tonight.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Chaps, sombrero, handkerchief, silver spurs at heel;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">"Hello, Gil!" and "Hello, Pete!" "How do you think you feel?"<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">"Drinks are mine. Come fall in, boys; crowd up on the right.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Here's happy days and honey joys. I'm going to dance tonight."<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">(On his hip in leathern tube, a case of dark blue steel.)<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Bill, the broncho buster, from the ranch at Beaver Bend,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Ninety steers and but one life in his hands to spend;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Ready for a fight or spree; ready for a race;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Going blind with bridle loose every inch of space.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Down at Johnny Schaeffer's place, see them trooping in,<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_6">p. 6</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">Up above the women laugh; down below is gin.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Belle McClure is dressed in blue, ribbon in her hair;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Broncho Bill is shaved and slick, all his throat is bare.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Round and round with Belle McClure he whirls a dizzy spin.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Jim Kershaw, the gambler, waits, — white his hands and slim.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Bill whispers, "Belle, you know it well; it is me or him.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Jim Kershaw, so help me God, if you dance with Belle<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">It is either you or me must travel down to hell."<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Jim put his arm around her waist, her graceful waist and slim.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Don't you hear the banjo laugh? Hear the fiddles scream?<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Broncho Bill leaned at the door, watched the twirling stream.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Twenty fiends were at his heart snarling, "Kill him sure."<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">(Out of hell that woman came.) "I love you, Belle McClure."<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Broncho Bill, he laughed and chewed and careless he did seem.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">The dance is done. Shots crack as one. The crowd shoves for the door.<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_7">p. 7</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">Broncho Bill is lying there and blood upon the floor.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">"You've finished me; you've gambler's luck; you've won the trick and Belle.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Mine the soul that here tonight is passing down to hell.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And I must ride the trail alone. Goodbye to Belle McClure."<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Downstairs on the billiard cloth, something lying white,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Upstairs still the dance goes on, all the lamps are bright.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Round and round in merry spin — on the floor a blot;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Laugh, and chaff and merry spin — such a little spot.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Broncho Bill has come to town and danced his dance tonight.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i2">
							<i>Don't you hear the fiddle shrieking?</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
						<span class="i2">
							<i>Don't you hear the banjo speaking?</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
						<span class="i2">
							<i>Don't you hear the big spurs jingle?</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
						<span class="i2">
							<i>Don't you feel the red blood tingle?</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
						<span class="i2">
							<i>Faces dyed with desert brown,</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
						<span class="i2">
							<i>(One that's set and white);</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
						<span class="i2">
							<i>Broncho Bill has come to town</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
						<span class="i2">
							<i>And danced his dance tonight.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
						<span class="i14">
							<i>William Maxwell.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
				</div>
				<hr class="major"/>
				<p class="newpoem">
					<span class="pagenum">
						<a id="Page_8">p. 8</a>
					</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3><a id="THE_LEGEND_OF_BOASTFUL_BILL"/>THE LEGEND OF BOASTFUL BILL</h3>
				<div class="poem">
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">AT a round-up on the Gila<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">One sweet morning long ago,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Ten of us was throwed quite freely<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">By a hoss from Idaho.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' we 'lowed he'd go a-beggin'<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">For a man to break his pride<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Till, a-hitchin' up one leggin',<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Boastful Bill cut loose an' cried:<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">"I'm a ornery proposition for to hurt,<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">I fulfil my earthly mission with a quirt,<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">I can ride the highest liver<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">'Twixt the Gulf an' Powder River,<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">An' I'll break this thing as easy as I'd flirt."<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">So Bill climbed the Northern fury<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' they mangled up the air<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Till a native of Missouri<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Would have owned the brag was fair.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Though the plunges kept him reelin'<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' the wind it flapped his shirt,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Loud above the hoss's squealin'<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">We could hear our friend assert:<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">"I'm the one to take such rockin's as a joke;<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_9">p. 9</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i2">Someone hand me up the makin's of a smoke.<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">If you think my fame needs brightnin',<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">Why, I'll rope a streak o' lightnin'<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">An' spur it up an' quirt it till it's broke."<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Then one caper of repulsion<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Broke that hoss's back in two,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Cinches snapped in the convulsion,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Skyward man and saddle flew,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Up they mounted, never flaggin',<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And we watched them through our tears,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">While this last, thin bit o' braggin'<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Came a-floatin' to our ears:<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">"If you ever watched my habits very close,<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">You would know I broke such rabbits by the gross.<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">I have kept my talent hidin',<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">I'm too good for earthly ridin',<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">So I'm off to bust the lightnin' — <ins class="transcriber" title="Transcriber’s note: original omits ó.">Adios</ins>!"<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Years have passed since that ascension;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Boastful Bill ain't never lit;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">So we reckon he's a-wrenchin'<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Some celestial outlaw's bit.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">When the night wind flaps our slickers,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the rain is cold and stout,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the lightnin' flares and flickers,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">We can sometimes hear him shout:<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_10">p. 10</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i2">"I'm a ridin' son o' thunder o' the sky,<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">I'm a broncho twistin' wonder on the fly.<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">Hey, you earthlin's, shut your winders,<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">We're a-rippin' clouds to flinders.<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">If this blue-eyed darlin' kicks at you, you die."<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Star-dust on his chaps and saddle,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Scornful still of jar and jolt,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He'll come back sometime a-straddle<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Of a bald-faced thunderbolt;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the thin-skinned generation<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Of that dim and distant day<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Sure will stare with admiration<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">When they hear old Boastful say:<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">"I was first, as old raw-hiders all confest,<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">I'm the last of all rough riders, and the best.<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">Huh! you soft and dainty floaters<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">With your aeroplanes and motors,<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">Huh! are you the greatgrandchildren of the West?"<br/></span>
						<span class="i4">
							<i>From recitation, original, by Charles Badger Clark, Jr.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
				</div>
				<hr class="major"/>
				<p class="newpoem">
					<span class="pagenum">
						<a id="Page_11">p. 11</a>
					</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3><a id="THE_TEXAS_COWBOY_AND_THE"/>THE TEXAS COWBOY AND THE<br/>
				MEXICAN GREASER</h3>
				<div class="poem">
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">I THINK we can all remember when a Greaser hadn't no show<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">In Palo Pinto particular,— it ain't very long ago;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">A powerful feelin' of hatred ag'in the whole Greaser race<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">That murdered bold Crockett and Bowie pervaded all in the place.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Why, the boys would draw on a Greaser as quick as they would on a steer;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">They was shot down without warnin' often, in the memory of many here.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">One day the bark of pistols was heard ringin' out in the air,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And a Greaser, chased by some ranchmen, tore round here into the square.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I don't know what he's committed,—'tain't likely anyone knew,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But I wouldn't bet a check on the issue; if you knew the gang, neither would you.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Breathless and bleeding, the Greaser fell down by the side of the wall;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And a man sprang out before him,— a man both strong and tall,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">By his clothes I should say a cowboy,— a stranger in town, I think,—<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_12">p. 12</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">With his pistol he waved back the gang, who was wild with rage and drink.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">"I warn ye, get back!" he said, "or I'll blow your heads in two!<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">A dozen on one poor creature, and him wounded and bleeding, too!"<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The gang stood back for a minute; then up spoke Poker Bill:<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">"Young man, yer a stranger, I reckon. We don't wish yer any ill;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But come out of the range of the Greaser, or, as sure as I live, you'll croak;"<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And he drew a bead on the stranger. I'll tell yer it wa'n't no joke.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But the stranger moven' no muscle as he looked in the bore of Bill's gun;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He hadn't no thought to stir, sir; he hadn't no thought to run;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But he spoke out cool and quiet, "I might live for a thousand year<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And not die at last so nobly as defendin' this Greaser here;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">For he's wounded, now, and helpless, and hasn't had no fair show;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the first of ye boys that strikes him, I'll lay that first one low."<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The gang respected the stranger that for another was willing to die;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">They respected the look of daring they saw in that cold, blue eye.<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_13">p. 13</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">They saw before them a hero that was glad in the right to fall;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And he was a Texas cowboy,— never heard of Rome at all.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Don't tell me of yer Romans, or yer bridge bein' held by three;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">True manhood's the same in Texas as it was in Rome, d'ye see?<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Did the Greaser escape? Why certain. I saw the hull crowd over thar<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">At the ranch of Bill Simmons, the gopher, with their glasses over the bar.<br/></span>
						<span class="i12">
							<i>From recitation.     Anonymous.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
				</div>
				<hr class="major"/>
				<p class="newpoem">
					<span class="pagenum">
						<a id="Page_14">p. 14</a>
					</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3><a id="BRONCHO_VERSUS_BICYCLE"/>BRONCHO VERSUS BICYCLE</h3>
				<div class="poem">
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">THE first that we saw of the high-tone tramp<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">War over thar at our Pecos camp;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He war comin' down the Santa Fe trail<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Astride of a wheel with a crooked tail,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">A-skinnin' along with a merry song<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' a-ringin' a little warnin' gong.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He looked so outlandish, strange and queer<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">That all of us grinned from ear to ear,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And every boy on the round-up swore<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He never seed sich a hoss before.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Wal, up he rode with a sunshine smile<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' a-smokin' a cigarette, an' I'll<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Be kicked in the neck if I ever seen<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Sich a saddle as that on his queer machine.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Why, it made us laugh, fer it wasn't half<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Big enough fer the back of a suckin' calf.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He tuk our fun in a keerless way,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">A-venturin' only once to say<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Thar wasn't a broncho about the place<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Could down that wheel in a ten-mile race.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">I'd a lightnin' broncho out in the herd<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">That could split the air like a flyin' bird,<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_15">p. 15</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">An' I hinted round in an off-hand way,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">That, providin' the enterprize would pay,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I thought as I might jes' happen to light<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">On a hoss that would leave him out er sight.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">In less'n a second we seen him yank<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">A roll o' greenbacks out o' his flank,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' he said if we wanted to bet, to name<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The limit, an' he would tackle the game.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Jes' a week before we had all been down<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">On a jamboree to the nearest town,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' the whiskey joints and the faro games<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' a-shakin' our hoofs with the dance hall dames,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Made a wholesale bust; an', pard, I'll be cussed<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">If a man in the outfit had any dust.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' so I explained, but the youth replied<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">That he'd lay the money matter aside,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' to show that his back didn't grow no moss<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He'd bet his machine against my hoss.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">I tuk him up, an' the bet war closed,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' me a-chucklin', fer I supposed<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I war playin' in dead-sure, winnin' luck<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">In the softest snap I had ever struck.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' the boys chipped in with a knowin' grin,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Fer they thought the fool had no chance to win.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' so we agreed fer to run that day<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">To the Navajo cross, ten miles away,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">As handsome a track as you ever seed<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Fer testin' a hosses prettiest speed.<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_16">p. 16</a>
						</span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Apache Johnson and Texas Ned<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Saddled up their hosses an' rode ahead<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">To station themselves ten miles away<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' act as judges an' see fair play;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">While Mexican Bart and big Jim Hart<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Stayed back fer to give us an even start.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I got aboard of my broncho bird<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' we came to the scratch an' got the word;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' I laughed till my mouth spread from ear to ear<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">To see that tenderfoot drop to the rear.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">The first three miles slipped away first-rate;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Then bronc began fer to lose his gait.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But I warn't oneasy an' didn't mind<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">With tenderfoot more'n a mile behind.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">So I jogged along with a cowboy song<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Till all of a sudden I heard that gong<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">A-ringin' a warnin' in my ear —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0"><i>Ting, ting, ting, ting,</i>— too infernal near;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' lookin' backwards I seen that chump<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Of a tenderfoot gainin' every jump.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">I hit old bronc a cut with the quirt<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' once more got him to scratchin' dirt;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But his wind got weak, an' I tell you, boss,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I seen he wasn't no ten-mile hoss.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Still, the plucky brute took another shoot<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' pulled away from the wheel galoot.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But the animal couldn't hold his gait;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' the idea somehow entered my pate<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_17">p. 17</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">That if tenderfoot's legs didn't lose their grip<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He'd own that hoss at the end of the trip.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Closer an' closer come tenderfoot,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' harder the whip to the hoss I put;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But the Eastern cuss, with a smile on his face<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Ran up to my side with his easy pace —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Rode up to my side, an' dern his hide,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Remarked 'twere a pleasant day fer a ride;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Then axed, onconcerned, if I had a match,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' on his britches give it a scratch,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Lit a cigarette, said he wished me good-day,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' as fresh as a daisy scooted away.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Ahead he went, that infernal gong<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">A-ringin' "good-day" as he flew along,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' the smoke from his cigarette came back<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Like a vaporous snicker along his track.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">On an' on he sped, gettin' further ahead,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">His feet keepin' up that onceaseable tread,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Till he faded away in the distance, an' when<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I seed the condemned Eastern rooster again<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He war thar with the boys at the end of the race,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">That same keerless, onconsarned smile on his face.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Now, pard, when a cowboy gits licked he don't swar<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Nor kick, if the beatin' are done on the squar;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">So I tuck that Easterner right by the hand<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' told him that broncho awaited his brand.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Then I axed him his name, an' where from he came,<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_18">p. 18</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">An' how long he'd practiced that wheel-rollin' game.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Tom Stevens he said war his name, an' he come<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">From a town they call Bosting, in old Yankeedom.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Then he jist paralyzed us by sayin' he'd whirled<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">That very identical wheel round the world.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Wal, pard, that's the story of how that smart chap<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Done me up w'en I thought I had sich a soft snap,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Done me up on a race with remarkable ease,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' lowered my pride a good many degrees.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Did I give him the hoss? W'y o' course I did, boss,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' I tell you it warn't no diminutive loss.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He writ me a letter from back in the East,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' said he presented the neat little beast<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">To a feller named Pope, who stands at the head<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">O' the ranch where the cussed wheel hosses are bred.<br/></span>
						<span class="i13">
							<i>Anonymous.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
				</div>
				<hr class="major"/>
				<p class="newpoem">
					<span class="pagenum">
						<a id="Page_19">p. 19</a>
					</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3><a id="RIDERS_OF_THE_STARS"/>RIDERS OF THE STARS</h3>
				<div class="poem">
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">TWENTY abreast down the Golden Street ten thousand riders marched;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Bow-legged boys in their swinging chaps, all clumsily keeping time;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the Angel Host to the lone, last ghost their delicate eyebrows arched<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">As the swaggering sons of the open range drew up to the throne sublime.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Gaunt and grizzled, a Texas man from out of the concourse strode,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And doffed his hat with a rude, rough grace, then lifted his eagle head;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The sunlit air on his silvered hair and the bronze of his visage glowed;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">"Marster, the boys have a talk to make on the things up here," he said.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">A hush ran over the waiting throng as the Cherubim replied:<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">"He that readeth the hearts of men He deemeth your challenge strange,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Though He long hath known that ye crave your own, that ye would not walk but ride,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Oh, restless sons of the ancient earth, ye men of the open range!"<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_20">p. 20</a>
						</span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Then warily spake the Texas man: "A petition and no complaint<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">We here present, if the Law allows and the Marster He thinks it fit;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">We-all agree to the things that be, but we're longing for things that ain't,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">So we took a vote and we made a plan and here is the plan we writ: —<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">"<i>'Give us a range and our horses and ropes, open the Pearly Gate,</i><br/></span>
						<span class="i0">
							<i>And turn us loose in the unfenced blue riding the sunset rounds,</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">
							<i>Hunting each stray in the Milky Way and running the Rancho straight;</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">
							<i>Not crowding the dogie stars too much on their way to the bedding-grounds.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">"<i>'Maverick comets that's running wild, we'll rope 'em and brand 'em fair,</i><br/></span>
						<span class="i0">
							<i>So they'll quit stampeding the starry herd and scaring the folks below,</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">
							<i>And we'll save 'em prime for the round-up time, and we riders'll all be there,</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">
							<i>Ready and willing to do our work as we did in the long ago.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">"<i>'We've studied the Ancient Landmarks, Sir; Taurus, the Bear, and Mars,</i><br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_21">p. 21</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">
							<i>And Venus a-smiling across the west as bright as a burning coal,</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">
							<i>Plain to guide as we punchers ride night-herding the little stars,</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">
							<i>With Saturn's rings for our home corral and the Dipper our water hole.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">"<i>'Here, we have nothing to do but yarn of the days that have long gone by,</i><br/></span>
						<span class="i0">
							<i>And our singing it doesn't fit in up here though we tried it for old time's sake;</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">
							<i>Our hands are itching to swing a rope and our legs are stiff; that's why</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
						<span class="i0"><i>We ask you, Marster, to turn us loose — just give us an even break!'</i>"<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Then the Lord He spake to the Cherubim, and this was His kindly word:<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">"He that keepeth the threefold keys shall open and let them go;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Turn these men to their work again to ride with the starry herd;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">My glory sings in the toil they crave; 'tis their right. I would have it so."<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Have you heard in the starlit dusk of eve when the lone coyotes roam,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The <i>Yip!</i> <i>Yip!</i> <i>Yip!</i> of a hunting cry and the echo that shrilled afar,<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_22">p. 22</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">As you listened still on a desert hill and gazed at the twinkling dome,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And a viewless rider swept the sky on the trail of a shooting star?<br/></span>
						<span class="i13">
							<i>Henry Herbert Knibbs.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
				</div>
				<hr class="major"/>
				<p class="newpoem">
					<span class="pagenum">
						<a id="Page_23">p. 23</a>
					</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3><a id="LASCA"/>LASCA</h3>
				<div class="poem">
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">I WANT free life, and I want fresh air;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And I sigh for the canter after the cattle,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The crack of the whips like shots in battle,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The medley of hoofs and horns and heads<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">That wars and wrangles and scatters and spreads;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The green beneath and the blue above,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And dash and danger, and life and love —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And Lasca!<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i6">Lasca used to ride<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">On a mouse-grey mustang close to my side,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">With blue serape and bright-belled spur;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I laughed with joy as I looked at her!<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Little knew she of books or creeds;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An Ave Maria sufficed her needs;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Little she cared save to be at my side,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">To ride with me, and ever to ride,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">From San Saba's shore to Lavaca's tide.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">She was as bold as the billows that beat,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">She was as wild as the breezes that blow:<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">From her little head to her little feet,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">She was swayed in her suppleness to and fro<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">By each gust of passion; a sapling pine<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">That grows on the edge of a Kansas bluff<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And wars with the wind when the weather is rough,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Is like this Lasca, this love of mine.<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_24">p. 24</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">She would hunger that I might eat,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Would take the bitter and leave me the sweet;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But once, when I made her jealous for fun<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">At something I whispered or looked or done,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">One Sunday, in San Antonio,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">To a glorious girl in the Alamo,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">She drew from her garter a little dagger,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And — sting of a wasp — it made me stagger!<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An inch to the left, or an inch to the right,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And I shouldn't be maundering here tonight;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But she sobbed, and sobbing, so quickly bound<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Her torn rebosa about the wound<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">That I swiftly forgave her. Scratches don't count<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">In Texas, down by the Rio Grande.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Her eye was brown — a deep, deep brown;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Her hair was darker than her eye;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And something in her smile and frown,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Curled crimson lip and instep high,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Showed that there ran in each blue vein,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Mixed with the milder Aztec strain,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The vigorous vintage of Old Spain.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">She was alive in every limb<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">With feeling, to the finger tips;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And when the sun is like a fire,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And sky one shining, soft sapphire<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">One does not drink in little sips.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">
							<span class="dots">· · · · · · ·</span>
						</span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">The air was heavy, the night was hot,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I sat by her side and forgot, forgot;<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_25">p. 25</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">Forgot the herd that were taking their rest,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Forgot that the air was close oppressed,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">That the Texas norther comes sudden and soon,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">In the dead of the night or the blaze of the noon;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">That, once let the herd at its breath take fright,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Nothing on earth can stop their flight;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And woe to the rider, and woe to the steed,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">That falls in front of their mad stampede!<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">
							<span class="dots">· · · · · · ·</span>
						</span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Was that thunder? I grasped the cord<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Of my swift mustang without a word.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I sprang to the saddle, and she clung behind.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Away! on a hot chase down the wind!<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But never was fox-hunt half so hard,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And never was steed so little spared.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">For we rode for our lives. You shall hear how we fared<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">In Texas, down by the Rio Grande.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">The mustang flew, and we urged him on;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">There was one chance left, and you have but one —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Halt, jump to the ground, and shoot your horse;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Crouch under his carcass, and take your chance;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And if the steers in their frantic course<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Don't batter you both to pieces at once,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">You may thank your star; if not, goodbye<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">To the quickening kiss and the long-drawn sigh,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the open air and the open sky,<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">In Texas, down by the Rio Grande.<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_26">p. 26</a>
						</span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">The cattle gained on us, and, just as I felt<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">For my old six-shooter behind in my belt,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Down came the mustang, and down came we,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Clinging together — and, what was the rest?<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">A body that spread itself on my breast,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Two arms that shielded my dizzy head,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Two lips that hard to my lips were prest;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Then came thunder in my ears,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">As over us surged the sea of steers,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Blows that beat blood into my eyes,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And when I could rise —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Lasca was dead!<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">
							<span class="dots">· · · · · · ·</span>
						</span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">I gouged out a grave a few feet deep,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And there in the Earth's arms I laid her to sleep;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And there she is lying, and no one knows;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the summer shines, and the winter snows;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">For many a day the flowers have spread<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">A pall of petals over her head;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the little grey hawk hangs aloft in the air,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the sly coyote trots here and there,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the black snake glides and glitters and slides<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Into the rift of a cottonwood tree;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the buzzard sails on,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And comes and is gone,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Stately and still, like a ship at sea.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And I wonder why I do not care<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">For the things that are, like the things that were.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Does half my heart lie buried there<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">In Texas, down by the Rio Grande?<br/></span>
						<span class="i13">
							<i>Frank Desprez.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
				</div>
				<hr class="major"/>
				<p class="newpoem">
					<span class="pagenum">
						<a id="Page_27">p. 27</a>
					</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3><a id="THE_TRANSFORMATION_OF_A_TEXAS"/>THE TRANSFORMATION OF A TEXAS<br/>
				GIRL</h3>
				<div class="poem">
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">SHE was a Texas maiden, she came of low degree,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Her clothes were worn and faded, her feet from shoes were free;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Her face was tanned and freckled, her hair was sun-burned, too,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Her whole darned <i>tout ensemble</i> was painful for to view!<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">She drove a lop-eared mule team attached unto a plow,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The trickling perspiration exuding from her brow;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And often she lamented her cruel, cruel fate,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">As but a po' white's daughter down in the Lone Star State.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">No courtiers came to woo her, she never had a beau,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Her misfit face precluded such things as that, you know,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">She was nobody's darling, no feller's solid girl,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And poets never called her an uncut Texas pearl.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Her only two companions was those two flea-bit mules,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And these she but regarded as animated tools<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">To plod along the furrows in patience up and down<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And pull the ancient wagon when pap'd go to town.<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_28">p. 28</a>
						</span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">No fires of wild ambition were flaming in her soul,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Her eyes with tender passion she'd never upward roll;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The wondrous world she'd heard of, to her was but a dream<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">As walked she in the furrows behind that lop-eared team.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Born on that small plantation, 'twas there she thought she'd die;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">She never longed for pinions that she might rise and fly<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">To other lands far distant, where breezes fresh and cool<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Would never shake and tremble from brayings of a mule.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">
							<span class="dots">· · · · · · ·</span>
						</span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">But yesterday we saw her dressed up in gorgeous style!<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">A half a dozen fellows were basking in her smile!<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">She'd jewels on her fingers, and jewels in her ears —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Great sparkling, flashing brilliants that hung as frozen tears!<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The feet once nude and soil-stained were clad in Frenchy boots,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The once tanned face bore tintings of miscellaneous fruits;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The voice that once admonished the mules to move along<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Was tuned to new-born music, as sweet as Siren's song!<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_29">p. 29</a>
						</span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Her tall and lanky father, one knows as "Sleepy Jim,"<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Is now addressed as Colonel by men who honor him;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And youths in finest raiment now take him by the paw,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Each in the hope that some day he'll call him dad-in-law.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Their days of toil are over, their sun has risen at last,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">A gold-embroidered curtain now hides their rocky past;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">For was it not discovered their little patch of soil<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Had rested there for ages above a flow of oil?<br/></span>
						<span class="i13">
							<i>James Barton Adams.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
				</div>
				<hr class="major"/>
				<p class="newpoem">
					<span class="pagenum">
						<a id="Page_30">p. 30</a>
					</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3><a id="THE_GLORY_TRAIL"/>THE GLORY TRAIL</h3>
				<div class="poem">
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">'WAY high up the Mogollons, <a id="FNanchor_1"/><a class="pginternal" href="#Footnote_1" style="font-size: .7em">[1]</a></span>
						<span class="i0">Among the mountain tops,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">A lion cleaned a yearlin's bones<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And licked his thankful chops,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">When on the picture who should ride,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">A-trippin' down the slope,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But High-Chin Bob, with sinful pride<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And mav'rick-hungry rope.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza" style="font-style: italic">
						<span class="i0">"Oh, glory be to me," says he,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">"And fame's unfadin' flowers!<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">All meddlin' hands are far away;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I ride my good top-hawse today<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And I'm top-rope of the Lazy J —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Hi! kitty cat, you're ours!"<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">That lion licked his paw so brown<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And dreamed soft dreams of veal —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And then the circlin' loop sung down<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And roped him 'round his meal.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He yowled quick fury to the world<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Till all the hills yelled back;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The top-hawse gave a snort and whirled<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And Bob caught up the slack.<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_31">p. 31</a>
						</span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza" style="font-style: italic">
						<span class="i0">"Oh, glory be to me," laughs he.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">"We hit the glory trail.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">No human man as I have read<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Darst loop a ragin' lion's head,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Nor ever hawse could drag one dead<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Until we told the tale."<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">'Way high up the Mogollons<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">That top-hawse done his best,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Through whippin' brush and rattlin' stones,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">From canyon-floor to crest<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But ever when Bob turned and hoped<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">A limp remains to find,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">A red-eyed lion, belly roped<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But healthy, loped behind.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza" style="font-style: italic">
						<span class="i0">"Oh, glory be to me," grunts he,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">"This glory trail is rough,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Yet even till the Judgment Morn<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I'll keep this dally 'round the horn,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">For never any hero born<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Could stoop to holler: 'nuff!'"<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Three suns had rode their circle home<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Beyond the desert's rim,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And turned their star herds loose to roam<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The ranges high and dim;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Yet up and down and round and 'cross<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Bob pounded, weak and wan,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">For pride still glued him to his hawse<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And glory drove him on.<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_32">p. 32</a>
						</span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza" style="font-style: italic">
						<span class="i0">"Oh, glory be to me," sighs he.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">"He kaint be drug to death,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But now I know beyond a doubt<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Them heroes I have read about<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Was only fools that stuck it out<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">To end of mortal breath."<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">'Way high up the Mogollons<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">A prospect man did swear<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">That moon dreams melted down his bones<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And hoisted up his hair:<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">A ribby cow-hawse thundered by,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">A lion trailed along,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">A rider, ga'nt, but chin on high,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Yelled out a crazy song.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza" style="font-style: italic">
						<span class="i0">"Oh, glory be to me!" cries he,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">"And to my noble noose!<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">O stranger, tell my pards below<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I took a rampin' dream in tow,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And if I never lay him low,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I'll never turn him loose!"<br/></span>
						<span class="i12">
							<i>Charles Badger Clark.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
				</div>
				<div class="footnote">
					<p><a id="Footnote_1"/><a class="pginternal" href="#FNanchor_1"><span class="label">1</span></a> Pronounced by the natives "muggy-yones.</p>
				</div>
				<hr class="major"/>
				<p class="newpoem">
					<span class="pagenum">
						<a id="Page_33">p. 33</a>
					</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3><a id="HIGH_CHIN_BOB"/>HIGH CHIN BOB</h3>
				<div class="poem">
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">'WAY high up in the Mokiones, among the mountain tops,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">A lion cleaned a yearling's bones and licks his thankful chops;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And who upon the scene should ride, a-trippin' down the slope,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But High Chin Bob of sinful pride and maverick-hungry rope.<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">"Oh, glory be to me!" says he, "an' fame's unfadin' flowers;<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">I ride my good top hoss today and I'm top hand of Lazy-J,<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">So, kitty-cat, you're ours!"<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">The lion licked his paws so brown, and dreamed soft dreams of veal,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">As High Chin's rope came circlin' down and roped him round his meal;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">She yowled quick fury to the world and all the hills yelled back;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">That top horse gave a snort and whirled and Bob took up the slack.<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">"Oh, glory be to me!" says he, "we'll hit the glory trail.<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_34">p. 34</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i2">No man has looped a lion's head and lived to drag the critter dead<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">Till I shall tell the tale."<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">'Way high up in the Mokiones that top hoss done his best,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">'Mid whippin' brush and rattlin' stones from canon-floor to crest;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Up and down and round and cross Bob pounded weak and wan,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But pride still glued him to his hoss and glory spurred him on.<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">"Oh, glory be to me!" says he, "this glory trail is rough!<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">But I'll keep this dally round the horn until the toot of judgment morn<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">Before I'll holler 'nough!"<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Three suns had rode their circle home, beyond the desert rim,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And turned their star herds loose to roam the ranges high and dim;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And whenever Bob turned and hoped the limp remains to find,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">A red-eyed lion, belly roped, but healthy, loped behind!<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">"Oh, glory be to me," says Bob, "he caint be drug to death!<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">These heroes that I've read about were only fools that stuck it out<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">To the end of mortal breath."<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_35">p. 35</a>
						</span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">'Way high up in the Mokiones, if you ever camp there at night,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">You'll hear a rukus among the stones that'll lift your hair with fright;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">You'll see a cow-hoss thunder by — a lion trail along,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the rider bold, with his chin on high, sings forth his glory song:<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">"Oh, glory be to me!" says he, "and to my mighty noose.<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">Oh, pardner, tell my friends below I took a ragin' dream in tow,<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">And if I didn't lay him low, I never turned him loose!"<br/></span>
						<span class="i12">
							<i>From oral rendition.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
				</div>
				<hr class="major"/>
				<p class="newpoem">
					<span class="pagenum">
						<a id="Page_36">p. 36</a>
					</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3><a id="TO_HEAR_HIM_TELL_IT"/>TO HEAR HIM TELL IT</h3>
				<div class="poem">
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">I WAS just about to take a drink —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I was mighty dry —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">So I hailed an old time cowman<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Who was passing by,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">"Come in, Ole Timer! have a drink!<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Kinda warm today!"<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">As we leaned across the bar-rail —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">"How's things up your way?"<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">"Stock is doin' fairly good,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Range is gettin' fine;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I jes dropped down to meetin' here<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">To spend a little time.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Con'sidable stuff a-movin' now —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Cows an' hosses, too,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Prices high an' a big demand —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Now I'm tellin' you!<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">"I've loaded out my feeders,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Got a good price all aroun';<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Sold 'em in Kansas City<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">To a commission man named Brown.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">A thousand told o' mixed stuff,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">In pretty fair shape, too,"<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Said the old Texas cowman,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">"Now I'm tellin' you!<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_37">p. 37</a>
						</span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">"I've been in this yere country<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Since late in fifty-nine,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I know every foot o' sage brush<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Clear to the southern line.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Got my first bunch started up<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Long in seventy-two,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Had to ride range with a long rope —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Now I'm tellin' you!<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">"Lordy, I kin remember<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Them good ole early days<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">When we ust t' trail the herds north<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">'N forty different ways.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Jes'n point 'em from the beddin' groun'<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' let 'em drift right through,"<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Said the reminiscent cowman,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">"Now I'm tellin' you!<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">"Yessir, trailed 'em up to Wichita,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Cross the Kansas line,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Made deliveries at Benton<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">As early as fifty-nine.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Turned 'em most to soldiers,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Some went to Injuns, too,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Beef wasn't nigh so high then —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Now I'm tellin' you!<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">"Son, I've fit nigh every Injun<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">That ever roamed the plains,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">'N I was one o' the best hands<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_38">p. 38</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">That ever pulled bridle reins.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Why, you boys don't know range life —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">You don't seem to git the ways,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Like we did down in Texas<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">In them good ol' early days!<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">"Yes, thing's a heap sight diff'rent now!<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">'Tain't like in them ol' days<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">When cowmen trailed their herds north<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">'N forty diff'rent ways.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">We ship 'em on the railroad now,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Load out on the big S. P.,"<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Says the relic of Texas cowman<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">As he takes a drink with me.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">"I figger on buyin' more feeders,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">From down across the line —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Chihuahua an' Sonora stuff,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' hold 'em till they're prime.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">So here's to the steers an' yearlin's!"<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">As we clink our glasses two,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">"Things ain't the same as they used to be,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Now I'm tellin' you!<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">"I got t' git out an' hustle,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I ain't got time t' stay;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Jes' want t' see some uh the boys<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">'N then I'm on my way.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">There's many a hand here right now<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">That I know'd long, long ago,<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_39">p. 39</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">When ranch land was free an' open<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' the plowman had a show.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">"'Tain't often we git together<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">To swap yarns an' tell our lies,"<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Said the old time Texas cowman<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">As a mist comes to his eyes.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">"So let's drink up; here's how!"<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">As we drain our glasses two,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">"Them was good ol' days an' good ol' ways —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Now I'm tellin' you!"<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">He talked and talked and yarned away,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He harped on days of yore —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">My head it ached and I grew faint;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">My legs got tired and sore.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Then a woman yelled, "You come here, John!"<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And Lordy! how he flew!<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the last I heard as he broke and ran<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Was, "Now I'm tellin' you!"<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">I won't never hail old timers<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">To have a drink with me,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">To learn the history of the range<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">As far back as seventy-three.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the next time that I'm thirsty<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And feeling kind of blue,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I'll step right up and drink alone —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Now I'm tellin' you!<br/></span>
						<span class="i13">
							<i>From the Wild Bunch.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
				</div>
				<hr class="major"/>
				<p class="newpoem">
					<span class="pagenum">
						<a id="Page_40">p. 40</a>
					</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3><a id="THE_CLOWNS_BABY"/>THE CLOWN'S BABY</h3>
				<div class="poem">
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">IT was on the western frontier,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The miners, rugged and brown,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Were gathered round the posters,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The circus had come to town!<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The great tent shone in the darkness<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Like a wonderful palace of light,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And rough men crowded the entrance,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Shows didn't come every night!<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Not a woman's face among them;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Many a face that was bad,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And some that were only vacant,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And some that were very sad.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And behind a canvas curtain,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">In a corner of the place,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The clown, with chalk and vermillion,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Was "making up" his face.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">A weary looking woman<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">With a smile that still was sweet,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Sewed on a little garment,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">With a cradle at her feet.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Pantaloon stood ready and waiting,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">It was time for the going on;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But the clown in vain searched wildly,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The "property baby" was gone!<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_41">p. 41</a>
						</span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">He murmured, impatiently hunting,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">"It's strange that I cannot find —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">There, I've looked in every corner;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">It must have been left behind!"<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The miners were stamping and shouting,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">They were not patient men;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The clown bent over the cradle,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">"I must take you, little Ben."<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">The mother started and shivered,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But trouble and want were near;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">She lifted the baby gently,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">"You'll be very careful, dear?"<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">"Careful? You foolish darling!"<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">How tenderly it was said!<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">What a smile shone through the chalk and paint!<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">"I love each hair of his head!"<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">The noise rose into an uproar,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Misrule for the time was king;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The clown with a foolish chuckle<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Bolted into the ring.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But as, with a squeak and flourish,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The fiddles closed their tune<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">"You'll hold him as if he were made of glass?"<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Said the clown to the pantaloon.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">The jovial fellow nodded,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">"I've a couple myself," he said.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">"I know how to handle 'em, bless you!<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_42">p. 42</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">Old fellow, go ahead!"<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The fun grew fast and furious,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And not one of all the crowd<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Had guessed that the baby was alive,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">When he suddenly laughed aloud.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Oh, that baby laugh! It was echoed<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">From the benches with a ring,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the roughest customer there sprang up<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">With, "Boys, it's the real thing."<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The ring was jammed in a minute,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Not a man that did not strive<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">For a "shot at holding the baby,"—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The baby that was alive!<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">He was thronged with kneeling suitors<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">In the midst of the dusty ring,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And he held his court right royally,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The fair little baby king,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Till one of the shouting courtiers,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">A man with a bold, hard face,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The talk, for miles, of the country,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the terror of the place,<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Raised the little king to his shoulder<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And chuckled, "Look at that!"<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">As the chubby fingers clutched his hair;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Then, "Boys, hand round the hat!"<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">There never was such a hatful<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Of silver and gold and notes;<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_43">p. 43</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">People are not always penniless<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Because they don't wear coats.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">And then, "Three cheers for the baby!"<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I tell you those cheers were meant,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the way that they were given<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Was enough to raise the tent.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And then there was sudden silence<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And a gruff old miner said,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">"Come boys, enough of this rumpus;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">It's time it was put to bed."<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">So, looking a little sheepish,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But with faces strangely bright,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The audience, somewhat lingering,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Flocked out into the night.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the bold-faced leader chuckled,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">"He wasn't a bit afraid!<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He's as game as he's good-looking!<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Boys, that was a show that <i>paid!</i>"<br/></span>
						<span class="i12">
							<i>Margaret Vandergrift.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
				</div>
				<hr class="major"/>
				<p class="newpoem">
					<span class="pagenum">
						<a id="Page_44">p. 44</a>
					</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3><a id="THE_DRUNKEN_DESPERADO"/>THE DRUNKEN DESPERADO</h3>
				<div class="poem">
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">I'M wild and woolly and full of fleas,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I'm hard to curry below the knees,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I'm a she-wolf from Shamon Creek,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">For I was dropped from a lightning streak<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And it's my night to hollow — Whoo-pee!<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">I stayed in Texas till they runned me out,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Then in Bull Frog they chased me about,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I walked a little and rode some more,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">For I've shot up a town before<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And it's my night to hollow — Whoo-pee!<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Give me room and turn me loose<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I'm peaceable without excuse.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I never killed for profit or fun,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But riled, I'm a regular son of a gun<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And it's my night to hollow — Whoo-pee!<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Good-eye Jim will serve the crowd;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The rule goes here no sweetnin' 'lowed.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And we'll drink now the Nixon kid,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">For I rode to town and lifted the lid<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And it's my night to hollow — Whoo-pee!<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">You can guess how quick a man must be,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">For I killed eleven and wounded three;<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_45">p. 45</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">And brothers and daddies aren't makin' a sound<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Though they know where the kid is found<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And it's my night to hollow — Whoo-pee!<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">When I get old and my aim aint true<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And it's three to one and wounded, too,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I won't beg and claw the ground;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">For I'll be dead before I'm found<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">When it's my night to hollow — Whoo-pee!<br/></span>
						<span class="i14">
							<i>Baird Boyd.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
				</div>
				<hr class="major"/>
				<p class="newpoem">
					<span class="pagenum">
						<a id="Page_46">p. 46</a>
					</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3><a id="MARTA_OF_MILRONE"/>MARTA OF MILRONE</h3>
				<div class="poem">
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">I SHOT him where the Rio flows;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I shot him when the moon arose;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And where he lies the vulture knows<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Along the Tinto River.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">In schools of eastern culture pale<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">My cloistered flesh began to fail;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">They bore me where the deserts quail<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">To winds from out the sun.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">I looked upon the land and sky,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Nor hoped to live nor feared to die;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And from my hollow breast a sigh<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Fell o'er the burning waste.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">But strong I grew and tall I grew;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I drank the region's balm and dew,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">It made me lithe in limb and thew,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">How swift I rode and ran!<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">And oft it was my joy to ride<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Over the sand-blown ocean wide<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">While, ever smiling at my side,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Rode Marta of Milrone.<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_47">p. 47</a>
						</span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">A flood of horned heads before,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The trampled thunder, smoke and roar,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Of full four thousand hoofs, or more —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">A cloud, a sea, a storm!<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Oh, wonderful the desert gleamed,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">As, man and maid, we spoke and dreamed<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Of love in life, till white wastes seemed<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Like plains of paradise.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Her eyes with Love's great magic shone.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">"Be mine, O Marta of Milrone,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Your hand, your heart be all my own!"<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Her lips made sweet response.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">"I love you, yes; for you are he<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Who from the East should come to me —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And I have waited long!" Oh, we<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Were happy as the sun.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">There came upon a hopeless quest,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">With hell and hatred in his breast,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">A stranger, who his love confessed<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">To Marta long in vain.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">To me she spoke: "Chosen mate,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">His eyes are terrible with fate,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I fear his love, I fear his hate,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I fear some looming ill!"<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_48">p. 48</a>
						</span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Then to the church we twain did ride,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I kissed her as she rode beside.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">How fair — how passing fair my bride<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">With gold combs in her hair!<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Before the Spanish priest we stood<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Of San Gregorio's brotherhood —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">A shot rang out! — and in her blood<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">My dark-eyed darling lay.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">O God! I carried her beside<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The Virgin's altar where she cried,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Smiling upon me ere she died,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">"Adieu, my love, adieu!"<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">I knelt before St. Mary's shrine<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And held my dead one's hand in mine,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">"Vengeance," I cried, "O Lord, be thine,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But I thy minister!"<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">I kissed her thrice and sealed my vow,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Her eyes, her sea-cold lips and brow,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">"Farewell, my heart is dying now,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">O Marta of Milrone!"<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Then swift upon my steed I lept;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">My streaming eyes the desert swept;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I saw the accursed where he crept<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Against the blood-red sun.<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_49">p. 49</a>
						</span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">I galloped straight upon his track,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And never more my eyes looked back;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The world was barred with red and black;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">My heart was flaming coal.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Through the delirious twilight dim<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the black night I followed him;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Hills did we cross and rivers swim,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">My fleet foot horse and I.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">The morn burst red, a gory wound,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">O'er iron hills and savage ground;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And there was never another sound<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Save beat of horses' hoofs.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Unto the murderer's ear they said,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">"<i>Thou'rt of the dead! Thou'rt of the dead!</i>"<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Still on his stallion black he sped<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">While death spurred on behind.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Fiery dust from the blasted plain<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Burnt like lava in every vein;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But I rode on with steady rein<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Though the fierce sand-devils spun.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Then to a sullen land we came,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Whose earth was brass, whose sky was flame;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I made it balm with her blessed name<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">In the land of Mexico.<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_50">p. 50</a>
						</span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">With gasp and groan my poor horse fell, —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Last of all things that loved me well!<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I turned my head — a smoking shell<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Veiled me his dying throes.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">But fast on vengeful foot was I;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">His steed fell, too, and was left to die;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He fled where a river's channel dry<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Made way to the rolling stream.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Red as my rage the huge sun sank.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">My foe bent low on the river's bank<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And deep of the kindly flood he drank<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">While the giant stars broke forth.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Then face to face and man to man<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I fought him where the river ran,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">While the trembling palm held up its fan<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the emerald serpents lay.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">The mad, remorseless bullets broke<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">From tongues of flame in the sulphur smoke;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The air was rent till the desert spoke<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">To the echoing hills afar.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Hot from his lips the curses burst;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He fell! The sands were slaked of thirst;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">A stream in the stream ran dark at first,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the stones grew red as hearts.<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_51">p. 51</a>
						</span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">I shot him where the Rio flows;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I shot him when the moon arose;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And where he lies the vulture knows<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Along the Tinto River.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">But where she lies to none is known<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Save to my poor heart and a lonely stone<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">On which I sit and weep alone<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Where the cactus stars are white.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Where I shall lie, no man can say;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The flowers all are fallen away;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The desert is so drear and grey,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">O Marta of Milrone!<br/></span>
						<span class="i13">
							<i>Herman Scheffauer.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
				</div>
				<hr class="major"/>
				<p class="newpoem">
					<span class="pagenum">
						<a id="Page_52">p. 52</a>
					</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3><a id="JACK_DEMPSEYS_GRAVE"/>JACK DEMPSEY'S GRAVE</h3>
				<div class="poem">
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">FAR out in the wilds of Oregon,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">On a lonely mountain side,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Where Columbia's mighty waters<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Roll down to the Ocean's tide;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Where the giant fir and cedar<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Are imaged in the wave,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">O'ergrown with ferns and lichens,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I found poor Dempsey's grave.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">I found no marble monolith,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">No broken shaft nor stone,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Recording sixty victories<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">This vanquished victor won;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">No rose, no shamrock could I find,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">No mortal here to tell<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Where sleeps in this forsaken spot<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The immortal Nonpareil.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">A winding, wooded canyon road<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">That mortals seldom tread<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Leads up this lonely mountain<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">To this desert of the dead.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the western sun was sinking<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">In Pacific's golden wave;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And these solemn pines kept watching<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Over poor Jack Dempsey's grave.<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_53">p. 53</a>
						</span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">That man of honor and of iron,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">That man of heart and steel,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">That man who far out-classed his class<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And made mankind to feel<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">That Dempsey's name and Dempsey's fame<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Should live in serried stone,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Is now at rest far in the West<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">In the wilds of Oregon.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Forgotten by ten thousand throats<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">That thundered his acclaim —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Forgotten by his friends and foes<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">That cheered his very name;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Oblivion wraps his faded form,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But ages hence shall save<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The memory of that Irish lad<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">That fills poor Dempsey's grave.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">O Fame, why sleeps thy favored son<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">In wilds, in woods, in weeds?<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And shall he ever thus sleep on —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Interred his valiant deeds?<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">'Tis strange New York should thus forget<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Its "bravest of the brave,"<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And in the wilds of Oregon<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Unmarked, leave Dempsey's grave.<br/></span>
						<span class="i14">
							<i>MacMahon.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
				</div>
				<hr class="major"/>
				<p class="newpoem">
					<span class="pagenum">
						<a id="Page_54">p. 54</a>
					</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3><a id="THE_CATTLE_ROUND-UP"/>THE CATTLE ROUND-UP</h3>
				<div class="poem">
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">ONCE more are we met for a season of pleasure,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">That shall smooth from our brows every furrow of care,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">For the sake of old times shall we each tread a measure<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And drink to the lees in the eyes of the fair.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Once more let the hand-clasp of years past be given;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Let us once more be boys and forget we are men;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Let friendships the chances of fortune have riven<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Be renewed and the smiling past come back again.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The past, when the prairie was big and the cattle<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Were as "scary" as ever the antelope grew —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">When to carry a gun, to make our spurs rattle,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And to ride a blue streak was the most that we knew;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The past when we headed each year for Dodge City<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And punched up the drags on the old Chisholm Trail;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">When the world was all bright and the girls were all pretty,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And a feller could "mav'rick" and stay out of jail.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Then here's to the eyes that like diamonds are gleaming,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And make the lamps blush that their duties are o'er;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And here's to the lips where young love lies a-dreaming;<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_55">p. 55</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">And here's to the feet light as air on the floor;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And here's to the memories — fun's sweetest sequel;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And here's to the night we shall ever recall;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And here's to the time — time shall know not its equal<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">When we danced the day in at the Cattlemen's Ball.<br/></span>
						<span class="i13">
							<i>H. D. C. McLaclachlan.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
				</div>
			</article>
			<hr class="section"/>
			<p>
				<span class="pagenum" style="display: none; visibility: hidden;">
					<a id="Page_56">p. 56</a>
				</span>
				<br/>
			</p>
			<p class="newpoem">
				<span class="pagenum" style="display: none; visibility: hidden;">
					<a id="Page_57">p. 57</a>
				</span>
			</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
