<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>VII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-7" epub:type="chapter">
			<hr class="section"/>
			<article epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3><a id="THE_COWBOY"/>THE COWBOY</h3>
				<div class="poem">
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">HE wears a big hat and big spurs and all that,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And leggins of fancy fringed leather;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He takes pride in his boots and the pistol he shoots,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And he's happy in all kinds of weather;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He's fond of his horse, it's a broncho, of course,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">For oh, he can ride like the devil;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He is old for his years and he always appears<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Like a fellow who's lived on the level;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He can sing, he can cook, yet his eyes have the look<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Of a man that to fear is a stranger;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Yes, his cool, quiet nerve will always subserve<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">For his wild life of duty and danger.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He gets little to eat, and he guys tenderfeet,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And for fashion, oh well! he's not in it;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He can rope a gay steer when he gets on its ear<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">At the rate of two-forty a minute;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">His saddle's the best in the wild, woolly West,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Sometimes it will cost sixty dollars;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Ah, he knows all the tricks when he brands mavericks,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But his knowledge is not got from your scholars;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He is loyal as steel, but demands a square deal,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And he hates and despises a coward;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Yet the cowboy, you'll find, to women is kind<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Though he'll fight till by death overpowered.<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_128">p. 128</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">Hence I say unto you,— give the cowboy his due<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And be kind, my friends, to his folly;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">For he's generous and brave though he may not behave<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Like your dudes, who are so melancholy.<br/></span>
						<span class="i13">
							<i>Anonymous.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
				</div>
				<hr class="major"/>
				<p class="newpoem">
					<span class="pagenum">
						<a id="Page_129">p. 129</a>
					</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3><a id="BAR-Z_ON_A_SUNDAY_NIGHT"/>BAR-Z ON A SUNDAY NIGHT</h3>
				<div class="poem">
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">WE ain't no saints on the Bar-Z ranch,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">'Tis said — an' we know who 'tis —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">"Th' devil's laid hold on us, tooth an' branch,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' uses us in his biz."<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Still, we ain't so bad but we might be wuss,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' you'd sure admit that's right,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">If you happened — an' unbeknown to us —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Around, of a Sunday night.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Th' week-day manners is stowed away,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Th' jokes an' the card games halts,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">When Dick's ol' fiddle begins to play<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">A toon — an' it ain't no waltz.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">It digs fer th' things that are out o' sight,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">It delves through th' toughest crust,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">It grips th' heart-strings, an' holds 'em tight,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Till we've got ter sing — er bust!<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">With pipin' treble the kid starts in,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' Hell! how that kid kin sing!<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">"Yield not to temptation, fer yieldin' is sin,"<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He leads, an' the rafters ring;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">"Fight manfully onward, dark passions subdue,"<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">We shouts it with force an' vim;<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_130">p. 130</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">"Look ever to Jesus, he'll carry you through,"—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">That's puttin' it up to Him!<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">We ain't no saints on the ol' Bar-Z,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But many a time an' oft<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">When ol' fiddle's a-pleadin', "Abide with me,"<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Our hearts gets kinder soft.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' we makes some promises there an' then<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Which we keeps — till we goes to bed,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">That's the most could be ast o' a passel o' men<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">What ain't no saints, as I said.<br/></span>
						<span class="i13">
							<i>Percival Combes.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
				</div>
				<hr class="major"/>
				<p class="newpoem">
					<span class="pagenum">
						<a id="Page_131">p. 131</a>
					</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3><a id="A_COWBOY_RACE"/>A COWBOY RACE</h3>
				<div class="poem">
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">A PATTERING rush like the rattle of hail<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">When the storm king's wild coursers are out on the trail,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">A long roll of hoofs,— and the earth is a drum!<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The centaurs! See! Over the prairies they come!<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">A rollicking, clattering, battering beat;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">A rhythmical thunder of galloping feet;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">A swift-swirling dust-cloud — a mad hurricane<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Of swarthy, grim faces and tossing, black mane;<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Hurrah! in the face of the steeds of the sun<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The gauntlet is flung and the race is begun!<br/></span>
						<span class="i13">
							<i>J. C. Davis.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
				</div>
				<hr class="major"/>
				<p class="newpoem">
					<span class="pagenum">
						<a id="Page_132">p. 132</a>
					</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3><a id="THE_HABIT"/>THE HABIT</h3>
				<div class="poem">
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">I'VE beat my way wherever any winds have blown;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I've bummed along from Portland down to San Antone;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">From Sandy Hook to Frisco, over gulch and hill,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">For once you git the habit, why, you can't keep still.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">I settled down quite frequent, and I says, says I,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">"I'll never wander further till I come to die."<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But the wind it sorter chuckles, "Why, o' course you will."<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' sure enough I does it 'cause I can't keep still.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">I've seen a lot o' places where I'd like to stay,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But I gets a-feelin' restless an' I'm on my way.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I was never meant for settin' on my own door sill,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An', once you git the habit, why, you can't keep still.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">I've been in rich men's houses an' I've been in jail,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But when it's time for leavin' I jes hits the trail.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I'm a human bird of passage and the song I trill<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Is, "Once you git the habit, why, you can't keep still."<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_133">p. 133</a>
						</span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">The sun is sorter coaxin' an' the road is clear,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' the wind is singin' ballads that I got to hear.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">It ain't no use to argue when you feel the thrill;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">For, once you git the habit, why, you can't keep still.<br/></span>
						<span class="i13">
							<i>Berton Braley.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
				</div>
				<hr class="major"/>
				<p class="newpoem">
					<span class="pagenum">
						<a id="Page_134">p. 134</a>
					</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3><a id="A_RANGER"/>A RANGER</h3>
				<div class="poem">
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">HE never made parade of tooth or claw;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He was plain as us that nursed the bawlin' herds.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Though he had a rather meanin'-lookin' jaw,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He was shy of exercisin' it with words.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">As a circus-ridin' preacher of the law,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">All his preachin' was the sort that hit the nail;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He was just a common ranger, just a ridin' pilgrim stranger,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And he labored with the sinners of the trail.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Once a Yaqui knifed a woman, jealous mad,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Then hit southward with the old, old killer's plan,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And nobody missed the woman very bad,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">While they'd just a little rather missed the man.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But the ranger crossed his trail and sniffed it glad,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And then loped away to bring him back again,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">For he stood for peace and order on the lonely, sunny border<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And his business was to hunt for sinful men!<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">So the trail it led him southward all the day,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Through the shinin' country of the thorn and snake,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Where the heat had drove the lizards from their play<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_135">p. 135</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">To the shade of rock and bush and yucca stake.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the mountains heaved and rippled far away<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the desert broiled as on the devil's prong,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But he didn't mind the devil if his head kept clear and level<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the hoofs beat out their clear and steady song.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Came the yellow west, and on a far off rise<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Something black crawled up and dropped beyond the rim,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And he reached his rifle out and rubbed his eyes<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">While he cussed the southern hills for growin' dim.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Down a hazy 'royo came the coyote cries,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Like they laughed at him because he'd lost his mark,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the smile that brands a fighter pulled his mouth a little tighter<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">As he set his spurs and rode on through the dark.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Came the moonlight on a trail that wriggled higher<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Through the mountains that look into Mexico,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the shadows strung his nerves like banjo wire<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the miles and minutes dragged unearthly slow.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Then a black mesquite spit out a thread of fire<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the canyon walls flung thunder back again,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And he caught himself and fumbled at his rifle while he grumbled<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">That his bridle arm had weight enough for ten.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Though his rifle pointed wavy-like and slack<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And he grabbed for leather at his hawse's shy,<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_136">p. 136</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">Yet he sent a soft-nosed exhortation back<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">That convinced the sinner — just above the eye.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">So the sinner sprawled among the shadows black<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">While the ranger drifted north beneath the moon,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Wabblin' crazy in his saddle, workin' hard to stay a-straddle<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">While the hoofs beat out a slow and sorry tune.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">When the sheriff got up early out of bed,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">How he stared and vowed his soul a total loss,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">As he saw the droopy thing all blotched with red<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">That came ridin' in aboard a tremblin' hawse.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But "I got 'im" was the most the ranger said<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And you couldn't hire him, now, to tell the tale;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He was just a quiet ranger, just a ridin' pilgrim stranger<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And he labored with the sinners of the trail.<br/></span>
						<span class="i13">
							<i>Charles Badger Clark, Jr.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
				</div>
				<hr class="major"/>
				<p class="newpoem">
					<span class="pagenum">
						<a id="Page_137">p. 137</a>
					</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3><a id="THE_INSULT"/>THE INSULT</h3>
				<div class="poem">
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">I'VE swum the Colorado where she runs close down to hell;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I've braced the faro layouts in Cheyenne;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I've fought for muddy water with a bunch of howlin' swine<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' swallowed hot tamales and cayenne;<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">I've rode a pitchin' broncho till the sky was underneath;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I've tackled every desert in the land;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I've sampled XX whiskey till I couldn't hardly see<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' dallied with the quicksands of the Grande;<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">I've argued with the marshals of a half a dozen burgs;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I've been dragged free and fancy by a cow;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I've had three years' campaignin' with the fightin', bitin' Ninth,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' I never lost my temper till right now.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">I've had the yeller fever and been shot plum full of holes;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I've grabbed an army mule plum by the tail;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But I've never been so snortin', really highfalutin' mad<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">As when you up and hands me ginger ale.<br/></span>
						<span class="i13">
							<i>Anonymous.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
				</div>
				<hr class="major"/>
				<p class="newpoem">
					<span class="pagenum">
						<a id="Page_138">p. 138</a>
					</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3><a id="THE_ROAD_TO_RUIN"/>"THE ROAD TO RUIN"<a id="FNanchor_2"/><a class="fnanchor pginternal" href="#Footnote_2">[2]</a></h3>
				<div class="poem">
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">I WENT into the grog-shop, Tom, and stood beside the bar,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And drank a glass of lemonade and smoked a bad seegar.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The same old kegs and jugs was thar, the same we used to know<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">When we was on the round-up, Tom, some twenty years ago.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">The bar-tender is not the same. The one who used to sell<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Corroded tangle-foot to us, is rotting now in hell.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">This one has got a plate-glass front, he combs his hair quite low,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He looks just like the one we knew some twenty years ago.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Old soak came up and asked for booze and had the same old grin<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">While others burned their living forms and wet their coats with gin.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Outside the doorway women stood, their faces seamed with woe<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And wept just like they used to weep some twenty years ago.<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_139">p. 139</a>
						</span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">I asked about our old-time friends, those cheery, sporty men;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And some was in the poor-house, Tom, and some was in the pen.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">You know the one you liked the best? — the <ins class="transcriber" title="Transcriber’s note: original hyphen retained.">hang-man</ins> laid him low,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Oh, few are left that used to booze some twenty years ago.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">You recollect our favorite, whom pride claimed for her own,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He used to say that he could booze or leave the stuff alone.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He perished for the James Fitz James, out in the rain and snow,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Yes, few survive who used to booze some twenty years ago.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">I visited the old church yard and there I saw the graves<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Of those who used to drown their woes in old fermented ways.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I saw the graves of women thar, lying where the daisies grow,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Who wept and died of broken hearts some twenty years ago.<br/></span>
						<span class="i13">
							<i>Anonymous.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
				</div>
				<div class="footnote">
					<p><a id="Footnote_2"/><a class="pginternal" href="#FNanchor_2"><span class="label">2</span></a> A famous saloon in West Texas carried this unusual sign.</p>
				</div>
				<hr class="major"/>
				<p class="newpoem">
					<span class="pagenum">
						<a id="Page_140">p. 140</a>
					</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3><a id="THE_OUTLAW"/>THE OUTLAW</h3>
				<div class="poem">
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">WHEN my loop takes hold on a two-year-old,<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">By the feet or the neck or the horn,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He kin plunge and fight till his eyes go white,<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">But I'll throw him as sure as you're born.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Though the taut rope sing like a banjo string<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">And the latigoes creak and strain,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Yet I've got no fear of an outlaw steer<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">And I'll tumble him on the plain.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza" style="font-style: italic">
						<span class="i2">For a man is a man and a steer is a beast,<br/></span>
						<span class="i3">And the man is the boss of the herd;<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">And each of the bunch, from the biggest to least,<br/></span>
						<span class="i3">Must come down when he says the word.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">When my leg swings 'cross on an outlaw hawse<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">And my spurs clinch into his hide,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He kin r'ar and pitch over hill and ditch,<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">But wherever he goes I'll ride.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Let 'im spin and flop like a crazy top,<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">Or flit like a wind-whipped smoke,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But he'll know the feel of my rowelled heel<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">Till he's happy to own he's broke.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza" style="font-style: italic">
						<span class="i2">For a man is a man and a hawse is a brute,<br/></span>
						<span class="i3">And the hawse may be prince of his clan,<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum" style="font-style: normal">
							<a id="Page_141">p. 141</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i2">But he'll bow to the bit and the steel-shod boot<br/></span>
						<span class="i3">And own that his boss is the man.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">When the devil at rest underneath my vest<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">Gets up and begins to paw,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And my hot tongue strains at its bridle-reins,<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">Then I tackle the real outlaw;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">When I get plumb riled and my sense goes wild,<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">And my temper has fractious growed,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">If he'll hump his neck just a triflin' speck,<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">Then it's dollars to dimes I'm throwed.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza" style="font-style: italic">
						<span class="i2">For a man is a man, but he's partly a beast —<br/></span>
						<span class="i3">He kin brag till he makes you deaf,<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">But the one, lone brute, from the West to the East,<br/></span>
						<span class="i3">That he kaint quite break, is himse'f.<br/></span>
						<span class="i12">
							<i>Charles B. Clark, Jr.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
				</div>
				<hr class="major"/>
				<p class="newpoem">
					<span class="pagenum">
						<a id="Page_142">p. 142</a>
					</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3><a id="THE_DESERT"/>THE DESERT</h3>
				<div class="poem">
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">'TWAS the lean coyote told me, baring his slavish soul,<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">As I counted the ribs of my dead cayuse and cursed at the desert sky,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The tale of the Upland Rider's fate while I dug in the water hole<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">For a drop, a taste of the bitter seep; but the water hole was dry!<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">"He came," said the lean coyote, "and he cursed as his pony fell;<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">And he counted his pony's ribs aloud; yea, even as you have done.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He raved as he ripped at the clay-red sand like an imp from the pit of hell,<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">Shriveled with thirst for a thousand years and craving a drop — just one."<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">"His name?" I asked, and he told me, yawning to hide a grin:<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">"His name is writ on the prison roll and many a place beside;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Last, he scribbled it on the sand with a finger seared and thin,<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_143">p. 143</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i1">And I watched his face as he spelled it out — laughed as I laughed, and died.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">"And thus," said the lean coyote, "his need is the hungry's feast,<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">And mine." I fumbled and pulled my gun — emptied it wild and fast,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But one of the crazy shots went home and silenced the waiting beast;<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">There lay the shape of the Liar, dead! 'Twas I that should laugh the last.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Laugh? Nay, now I would write my name as the Upland Rider wrote;<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">Write? What need, for before my eyes in a wide and wavering line<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I saw the trace of a written word and letter by letter float<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">Into a mist as the world grew dark; and I knew that the name was mine.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Dreams and visions within the dream; turmoil and fire and pain;<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">Hands that proffered a brimming cup — empty, ere I could take;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Then the burst of a thunder-head — rain! It was rude, fierce rain!<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">Blindly down to the hole I crept, shivering, drenched, awake!<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_144">p. 144</a>
						</span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Dawn — and the edge of the red-rimmed sun scattering golden flame,<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">As stumbling down to the water hole came the horse that I thought was dead;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But never a sign of the other beast nor a trace of a rider's name;<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">Just a rain-washed track and an empty gun — and the old home trail ahead.<br/></span>
						<span class="i13">
							<i>Henry Herbert Knibbs.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
				</div>
				<hr class="major"/>
				<p class="newpoem">
					<span class="pagenum">
						<a id="Page_145">p. 145</a>
					</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3><a id="WHISKEY_BILL_A_FRAGMENT"/>WHISKEY BILL,— A FRAGMENT</h3>
				<div class="poem">
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">A-DOWN the road and gun in hand<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Comes Whiskey Bill, mad Whiskey Bill;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">A-lookin' for some place to land<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Comes Whiskey Bill.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' everybody'd like to be<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Ten miles away behind a tree<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">When on his joyous, aching spree<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Starts Whiskey Bill.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">The times have changed since you made love,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">O Whiskey Bill, O Whiskey Bill!<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The happy sun grinned up above<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">At Whiskey Bill.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And down the middle of the street<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The sheriff comes on toe and feet<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">A-wishin' for one fretful peek<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">At Whiskey Bill.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">The cows go grazing o'er the lea,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Poor Whiskey Bill! Poor Whiskey Bill!<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' aching thoughts pour in on me<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Of Whiskey Bill.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The sheriff up and found his stride;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Bill's soul went shootin' down the slide,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">How are things on the Great Divide,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">O Whiskey Bill?<br/></span>
						<span class="i13">
							<i>Anonymous.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
				</div>
				<hr class="major"/>
				<p class="newpoem">
					<span class="pagenum">
						<a id="Page_146">p. 146</a>
					</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3><a id="DENVER_JIM"/>DENVER JIM</h3>
				<div class="poem">
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">"SAY, fellers, that ornery thief must be nigh us,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">For I jist saw him across this way to the right;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Ah, there he is now right under that burr-oak<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">As fearless and cool as if waitin' all night.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Well, come on, but jist get every shooter all ready<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Fur him, if he's spilin' to give us a fight;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The birds in the grove will sing chants to our picnic<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' that limb hangin' over him stands about right.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">"Say, stranger, good mornin'. Why, dog blast my lasso, boys,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">If it ain't Denver Jim that's corralled here at last.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Right aside for the jilly. Well, Jim, we are searchin'<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">All night for a couple about of your cast.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' seein' yer enter this openin' so charmin'<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">We thought perhaps yer might give us the trail.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Haven't seen anything that would answer description?<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">What a nerve that chap has, but it will not avail.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">"Want to trade hosses fur the one I am stridin'!<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Will you give me five hundred betwixt fur the boot?<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Say, Jim, that air gold is the strongest temptation<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' many a man would say take it and scoot.<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_147">p. 147</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">But we don't belong to that denomination;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">You have got to the end of your rope, Denver Jim.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">In ten minutes more we'll be crossin' the prairie,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' you will be hangin' there right from that limb.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">"Have you got any speakin' why the sentence ain't proper?<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Here, take you a drink from the old whiskey flask.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Ar' not dry? Well, I am, an' will drink ter yer, pard,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' wish that this court will not bungle this task.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">There, the old lasso circles your neck like a fixture;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Here, boys, take the line an' wait fer the word;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I am sorry, old boy, that your claim has gone under;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Fer yer don't meet yer fate like the low, common herd.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">"What's that? So yer want me to answer a letter,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Well, give it to me till I make it all right,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">A moment or two will be only good manners,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The judicious acts of this court will be white.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">'Long Point, Arkansas, the thirteenth of August,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">My dearest son James, somewhere out in the West,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">For long, weary months I've been waiting for tidings<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Since your last loving letter came eastward to bless.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">"'God bless you, my son, for thus sending that money,<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_148">p. 148</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">Remembering your mother when sorely in need.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">May the angels from heaven now guard you from danger<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And happiness follow your generous deed.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">How I long so to see you come into the doorway,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">As you used to, of old, when weary, to rest.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">May the days be but few when again I can greet you,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">My comfort and staff, is your mother's request.'<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">"Say, pard, here's your letter. I'm not good at writin',<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I think you'd do better to answer them lines;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' fer fear I might want it I'll take off that lasso,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' the hoss you kin leave when you git to the pines.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' Jim, when yer see yer old mother jist tell her<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">That a wee bit o' writin' kinder hastened the day<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">When her boy could come eastward to stay with her always.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Come boys, up and mount and to Denver away."<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">O'er the prairies the sun tipped the trees with its splendor,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The dew on the grass flashed the diamonds so bright,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">As the tenderest memories came like a blessing<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">From the days of sweet childhood on pinions of light.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Not a word more was spoken as they parted that morning,<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_149">p. 149</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">Yet the trail of a tear marked each cheek as they turned;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">For higher than law is the love of a mother,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">It reversed the decision,— the court was adjourned.<br/></span>
						<span class="i12">
							<i>Sherman D. Richardson.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
				</div>
				<hr class="major"/>
				<p class="newpoem">
					<span class="pagenum">
						<a id="Page_150">p. 150</a>
					</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3><a id="THE_VIGILANTES"/>THE VIGILANTES</h3>
				<div class="poem">
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i2">WE are the whirlwinds that winnow the West —<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">We scatter the wicked like straw!<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">We are the Nemeses, never at rest —<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">We are Justice, and Right, and the Law!<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Moon on the snow and a blood-chilling blast,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Sharp-throbbing hoofs like the heart-beat of fear,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">A halt, a swift parley, a pause — then at last<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">A stiff, swinging figure cut darkly and sheer<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Against the blue steel of the sky; ghastly white<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Every on-looking face. Men, our duty was clear;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Yet ah! what a soul to send forth to the night!<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Ours is a service brute-hateful and grim;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Little we love the wild task that we seek;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Are they dainty to deal with — the fear-rigid limb,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The curse and the struggle, the blasphemous shriek?<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Nay, but men must endure while their bodies have breath;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">God made us strong to avenge Him the weak —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">To dispense his sure wages of sin — which is death.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">We stand for our duty: while wrong works its will,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Our search shall be stern and our course shall be wide;<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_151">p. 151</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">Retribution shall prove that the just liveth still,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And its horrors and dangers our hearts can abide,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">That safety and honor may tread in our path;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The vengeance of Heaven shall speed at our side,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">As we follow unwearied our mission of wrath.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i2">We are the whirlwinds that winnow the West —<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">We scatter the wicked like straw!<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">We are the Nemeses, never at rest —<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">We are Justice, and Right, and the Law!<br/></span>
						<span class="i12">
							<i>Margaret Ashmun.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
				</div>
				<hr class="major"/>
				<p class="newpoem">
					<span class="pagenum">
						<a id="Page_152">p. 152</a>
					</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3><a id="THE_BANDITS_GRAVE"/>THE BANDIT'S GRAVE</h3>
				<div class="poem">
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">'MID lava rock and glaring sand,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">'Neath the desert's brassy skies,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Bound in the silent chains of death<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">A border bandit lies.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The poppy waves her golden glow<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Above the lowly mound;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The cactus stands with lances drawn,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">A martial guard around.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">His dreams are free from guile or greed,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Or foray's wild alarms.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">No fears creep in to break his rest<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">In the desert's scorching arms.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He sleeps in peace beside the trail,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Where the twilight shadows play,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Though they watch each night for his return<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">A thousand miles away.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">From the mesquite groves a night bird calls<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">When the western skies grow red;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The sand storm sings his deadly song<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Above the sleeper's head.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">His steed has wandered to the hills<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And helpless are his hands,<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_153">p. 153</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">Yet peons curse his memory<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Across the shifting sands.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">The desert cricket tunes his pipes<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">When the half-grown moon shines dim;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The sage thrush trills her evening song —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But what are they to him?<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">A rude-built cross beside the trail<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">That follows to the west<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Casts its long-drawn, ghastly shadow<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Across the sleeper's breast.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">A lone coyote comes by night<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And sits beside his bed,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Sobbing the midnight hours away<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">With gaunt, up-lifted head.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The lizard trails his aimless way<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Across the lonely mound,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">When the star-guards of the desert<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Their pickets post around.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">The winter snows will heap their drifts<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Among the leafless sage;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The pallid hosts of the blizzard<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Will lift their voice in rage;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The gentle rains of early spring<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Will woo the flowers to bloom,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And scatter their fleeting incense<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">O'er the border bandit's tomb.<br/></span>
						<span class="i13">
							<i>Charles Pitt.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
				</div>
				<hr class="major"/>
				<p class="newpoem">
					<span class="pagenum">
						<a id="Page_154">p. 154</a>
					</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3><a id="THE_OLD_MACKENZIE_TRAIL"/>THE OLD MACKENZIE TRAIL</h3>
				<div class="poem">
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">SEE, stretching yonder o'er that low divide<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Which parts the falling rain,— the eastern slope<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Sends down its waters to the southern sea<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Through Double Mountain's winding length of stream;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The western side spreads out into a plain,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Which sinks away o'er tawny, rolling leagues<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">At last into the rushing Rio Grande,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">See, faintly showing on that distant ridge,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The deep-cut pathways through the shelving crest,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Sage-matted now and rimmed with chaparral,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The dim reminders of the olden times,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The life of stir, of blood, of Indian raid,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The hunt of buffalo and antelope;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The camp, the wagon train, the sea of steers;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The cowboy's lonely vigil through the night;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The stampede and the wild ride through the storm;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The call of California's golden flood;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The impulse of the Saxon's "Westward Ho"<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Which set our fathers' faces from the east,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">To spread resistless o'er the barren wastes,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">To people all the regions 'neath the sun —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Those vikings of the old Mackenzie Trail.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">It winds — this old forgotten cattle trail —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Through valleys still and silent even now,<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_155">p. 155</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">Save when the yellow-breasted desert lark<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Cries shrill and lonely from a dead mesquite,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">In quivering notes set in a minor key;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The endless round of sunny days, of starry nights,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The desert's blank immutability.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The coyote's howl is heard at dark from some<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Low-lying hill; companioned by the loafer wolf<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">They yelp in concert to the far off stars,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Or gnaw the bleachèd bones in savage rage<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">That lie unburied by the grass-grown paths.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The prairie dogs play sentinel by day<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And backward slips the badger to his den;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The whir, the fatal strike of rattlesnake,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">A staring buzzard floating in the blue,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And, now and then, the curlew's eerie call,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Lost, always lost, and seeking evermore.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">All else is mute and dormant; vacantly<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The sun looks down, the days run idly on,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The breezes whirl the dust, which eddying falls<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Smothering the records of the westward caravans,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Where silent heaps of wreck and nameless graves<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Make milestones for the old Mackenzie Trail.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Across the Brazos, Colorado, through<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Concho's broad, fair valley, sweeping on<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">By Abilene it climbs upon the plains,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The Llano Estacado (beyond lie wastes<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Of alkali and hunger gaunt and death),—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And here is lost in shifting rifts of sand.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Anon it lingers by a hidden spring<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_156">p. 156</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">That bubbles joy into the wilderness;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Its pathway trenched that distant mountain side,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Now grown to gulches through torrential rain.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">De Vaca gathered pinons by the way,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Long ere the furrows grew on yonder hill,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Cut by the creaking prairie-schooner wheels;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">La Salle, the gentle Frenchman, crossed this course,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And went to death and to a nameless grave.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">For ages and for ages through the past<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Comanches and Apaches from the north<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Came sweeping southward, searching for the sun,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And charged in mimic combat on the sea.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The scions of Montezuma's low-browed race<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Perhaps have seen that knotted, thorn-clad tree;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Or sucked the cactus apples growing there.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">All these have passed, and passed the immigrants,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Who bore the westward fever in their brain,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The Norseman tang for roving in their veins;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Who loved the plains as sailors love the sea,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Braved danger, death, and found a resting place<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">While traveling on the old Mackenzie Trail.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Brave old Mackenzie long has laid him down<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">To rest beyond the trail that bears his name;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">A granite mountain makes his monument;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The northers, moaning o'er the low divide,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Go gently past his long deserted camps.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">No more his rangers guard the wild frontier,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">No more he leads them in the border fight.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">No more the mavericks, winding stream of horns<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_157">p. 157</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">To Kansas bound; the dust, the cowboy songs<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And cries, the pistol's sharp report,— the free,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Wild days in Texas by the Rio Grande.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And some men say when dusky night shuts down,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Dark, cloudy nights without a kindly star,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">One sees dim horsemen skimming o'er the plain<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Hard by Mackenzie's trail; and keener ears<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Have heard from deep within the bordering hills<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The tramp of ghostly hoofs, faint cattle lows,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The rumble of a moving wagon train,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Sometimes far echoes of a frontier song;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Then sounds grow fainter, shadows troop away,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">On westward, westward, as they in olden time<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Went rangeing o'er the old Mackenzie Trail.<br/></span>
						<span class="i14">
							<i>John A. Lomax.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
				</div>
				<hr class="major"/>
				<p class="newpoem">
					<span class="pagenum">
						<a id="Page_158">p. 158</a>
					</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3><a id="THE_SHEEP"/>THE SHEEP-HERDER<a id="FNanchor_3"/><a class="fnanchor pginternal" href="#Footnote_3">[3]</a></h3>
				<div class="poem">
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">ALL day across the sagebrush flat,<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">Beneath the sun of June,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">My sheep they loaf and feed and bleat<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">Their never changin' tune.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And then, at night time, when they lay<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">As quiet as a stone,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I hear the gray wolf far away,<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">"Alo-one!" he says, "Alo-one!"<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">A-a! ma-a! ba-a! eh-eh-eh!<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">The tune the woollies sing;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">It's rasped my ears, it seems, for years,<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">Though really just since Spring;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And nothin', far as I can see<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">Around the circle's sweep,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But sky and plain, my dreams and me<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">And them infernal sheep.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">I've got one book — it's poetry —<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">A bunch of pretty wrongs<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An Eastern lunger gave to me;<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">He said 'twas "shepherd songs."<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But, though that poet sure is deep<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">And has sweet things to say,<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_159">p. 159</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">He never seen a herd of sheep<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">Or smelt them, anyway.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">A-a! ma-a! ba-a! eh-eh-eh!<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">My woollies greasy gray,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An awful change has hit the range<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">Since that old poet's day.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">For you're just silly, on'ry brutes<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">And I look like distress,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And my pipe ain't the kind that toots<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">And there's no "shepherdess."<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Yet 'way down home in Kansas State,<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">Bliss Township, Section Five,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">There's one that's promised me to wait,<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">The sweetest girl alive;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">That's why I salt my wages down<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">And mend my clothes with strings,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">While others blow their pay in town<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">For booze and other things.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">A-a! ma-a! ba-a! eh-eh-eh!<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">My Minnie, don't be sad;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Next year we'll lease that splendid piece<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">That corners on your dad.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">We'll drive to "literary," dear,<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">The way we used to do<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And turn my lonely workin' here<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">To happiness for you.<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_160">p. 160</a>
						</span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Suppose, down near that rattlers' den,<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">While I sit here and dream,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I'd spy a bunch of ugly men<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">And hear a woman scream.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Suppose I'd let my rifle shout<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">And drop the men in rows,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And then the woman should turn out —<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">My Minnie! — just suppose.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">A-a! ma-a! ba-a! eh-eh-eh!<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">The tune would then be gay;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">There is, I mind, a parson kind<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">Just forty miles away.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Why, Eden would come back again,<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">With sage and sheep corrals,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And I could swing a singin' pen<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">To write her "pastorals."<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">I pack a rifle on my arm<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">And jump at flies that buzz;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">There's nothin' here to do me harm;<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">I sometimes wish there was.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">If through that brush above the pool<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">A red should creep — and creep —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Wah! cut down on 'im! — Stop, you fool!<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">That's nothin' but a sheep.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">A-a! ma-a! ba-a! — Hell!<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">Oh, sky and plain and bluff!<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Unless my mail comes up the trail<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_161">p. 161</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i1">I'm locoed, sure enough.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">What's that? — a dust-whiff near the butte<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">Right where my last trail ran,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">A movin' speck, a — wagon! Hoot!<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">Thank God! here comes a man.<br/></span>
						<span class="i11">
							<i>Charles Badger Clark, Jr.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
				</div>
				<div class="footnote">
					<a id="Footnote_3"/><a class="pginternal" href="#FNanchor_3">
						<span class="label">3</span>
					</a>
					<p>Only such cowboys as are in desperate need of employment ever become sheep-herders.</p>
				</div>
				<hr class="major"/>
				<p class="poem">
					<span class="pagenum">
						<a id="Page_162">p. 162</a>
					</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3><a id="A_COWBOY_AT_THE_CARNIVAL"/>A COWBOY AT THE CARNIVAL</h3>
				<div class="poem">
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">YES, o' cose it's interestin' to a feller from the range,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Mighty queerish, too, I tell you,— sich a racket fer a change;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">From a life among the cattle, from a wool shirt and the chaps<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">To the biled shirt o' the city and the other tony traps.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Never seed sich herds o' people throwed together, every brand<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">O' humanity, I reckon, in this big mountain land<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Rounded up right here in Denver, runnin' on new sort o' feed.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Actin' restless an' oneasy, like they threatened to stampede.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Mighty curious to a rider comin' from the range, he feels<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">What you'd call a lost sensation from sombrero clar to heels;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Like a critter stray that drifted in a windstorm from its range<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">To another run o' grazin' where the brands it sees are strange.<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_163">p. 163</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">Then I see a city herder, a policeman, don't you know,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Sort o' think he's got men spotted an' is 'bout to make a throw<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Fer to catch me an' corral me fer a stray till he can talk<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">On the wire an' tell the owner fer to come an' get his stock.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Yes, it's mighty strange an' funny fer a cowboy, as you say,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Fer to hit a camp like this one, so unanimously gay;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But I want to tell you, pardner, that a rider sich as me<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Isn't built fer feedin' on sich crazy jamboree.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Every bone I got's a-achin', an' my feet as sore as if<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I had hit a bed o' cactus, an' my hinges is as stiff<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">From a-hittin' these hot pavements as a feller's jints kin git,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">'Taint like holdin' down a broncho on the range, a little bit.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">I'm hankerin', I tell you, fer to hit the trail an' run<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Like a crazy, locoed yearlin' from this big cloud-burst o' fun<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Back toward the cattle ranches, where a feller's breath comes free<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' he wears the clothes that fits him, 'stead o' this slick toggery.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Where his home is in the saddle, an' the heavens is his roof,<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_164">p. 164</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">An' his ever'day companions wears the hide an' cloven hoof,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Where the beller of the cattle is the only sound he hears,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' he never thinks o' nothin' but his grub an' hoss an' steers.<br/></span>
						<span class="i13">
							<i>Anonymous.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
				</div>
				<hr class="major"/>
				<p class="newpoem">
					<span class="pagenum">
						<a id="Page_165">p. 165</a>
					</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3><a id="THE_OLD_COWMAN"/>THE OLD COWMAN</h3>
				<div class="poem">
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">I RODE across a valley range<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I hadn't seen for years.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The trail was all so spoilt and strange<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">It nearly fetched the tears.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I had to let ten fences down,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">(The fussy lanes ran wrong)<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And each new line would make me frown<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And hum a mournin' song.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i2">Oh, it's squeak! squeak! squeak!<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">Hear 'em stretchin' of the wire!<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">The nester brand is on the land;<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">I reckon I'll retire.<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">While progress toots her brassy horn<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">And makes her motor buzz,<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">I thank the Lord I wasn't born<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">No later than I wuz!<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">'Twas good to live when all the sod,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Without no fence nor fuss,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Belonged in partnership to God,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The Government and us.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">With skyline bounds from east to west<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And room to go and come,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I loved my fellowman the best<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">When he was scattered some.<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_166">p. 166</a>
						</span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i2">Oh, it's squeak! squeak! squeak!<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">Close and closer cramps the wire!<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">There's hardly play to back away<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">And call a man a liar.<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">Their house has locks on every door;<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">Their land is in a crate.<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">There ain't the plains of God no more,<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">They're only real estate.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">There's land where yet no ditchers dig<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Nor cranks experiment;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">It's only lovely, free and big<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And isn't worth a cent.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I pray that them who come to spoil<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">May wait till I am dead<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Before they foul that blessed soil<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">With fence and cabbage head.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i2">Yet it's squeak! squeak! squeak!<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">Far and farther crawls the wire!<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">To crowd and pinch another inch<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">Is all their heart's desire.<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">The world is over-stocked with men,<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">And some will see the day<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">When each must keep his little pen,<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">But I'll be far away.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">When my old soul hunts range and rest<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Beyond the last divide,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Just plant me in some stretch of West<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_167">p. 167</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">That's sunny, lone and wide.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Let cattle rub my tombstone down<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And coyotes mourn their kin,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Let hawses paw and tramp the moun',—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But don't you fence it in!<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i2">Oh, it's squeak! squeak! squeak!<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">And they pen the land with wire.<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">They figure fence and copper cents<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">Where we laughed round the fire.<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">Job cussed his birthday, night and morn<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">In his old land of Uz,<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">But I'm just glad I wasn't born<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">No later than I wuz!<br/></span>
						<span class="i12">
							<i>Charles Badger Clark, Jr.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
				</div>
				<hr class="major"/>
				<p class="newpoem">
					<span class="pagenum">
						<a id="Page_168">p. 168</a>
					</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3><a id="THE_GILA_MONSTER_ROUTE"/>THE GILA MONSTER ROUTE</h3>
				<div class="poem">
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">THE lingering sunset across the plain<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Kissed the rear-end door of an east-bound train,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And shone on a passing track close by<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Where a ding-bat sat on a rotting tie.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">He was ditched by a shock and a cruel fate.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The con high-balled, and the manifest freight<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Pulled out on the stem behind the mail,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And she hit the ball on a sanded rail.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">As she pulled away in the falling light<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He could see the gleam of her red tail-light.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Then the moon arose and the stars came out —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He was ditched on the Gila Monster Route.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Nothing in sight but sand and space;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">No chance for a gink to feed his face;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Not even a shack to beg for a lump,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Or a hen-house to frisk for a single gump.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">He gazed far out on the solitude;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He drooped his head and began to brood;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He thought of the time he lost his mate<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">In a hostile burg on the Nickle Plate.<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_169">p. 169</a>
						</span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">They had mooched the stem and threw their feet,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And speared four-bits on which to eat;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But deprived themselves of daily bread<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And shafted their coin for "dago red."<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Down by the track in the jungle's glade,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">In the cool green grass, in the tules' shade,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">They shed their coats and ditched their shoes<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And tanked up full of that colored booze.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Then they took a flop with their skins plumb full,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And they did not hear the harnessed bull,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Till he shook them out of their boozy nap,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">With a husky voice and a loaded sap.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">They were charged with "vag," for they had no kale,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the judge said, "Sixty days in jail."<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But the John had a bindle,— a worker's plea,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">So they gave him a floater and set him free.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">They had turned him up, but ditched his mate,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">So he grabbed the guts of an east-bound freight,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He flung his form on a rusty rod,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Till he heard the shack say, "Hit the sod!"<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">The John piled off, he was in the ditch,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">With two switch lamps and a rusty switch,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">A poor, old, seedy, half-starved bo<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">On a hostile pike, without a show.<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_170">p. 170</a>
						</span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">From away off somewhere in the dark<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Came the sharp, short notes of a coyote's bark.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The bo looked round and quickly rose<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And shook the dust from his threadbare clothes.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Off in the west through the moonlit night<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He saw the gleam of a big head-light —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An east-bound stock train hummed the rail;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">She was due at the switch to clear the mail.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">As she drew up close, the head-end shack<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Threw the switch to the passenger track,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The stock rolled in and off the main,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the line was clear for the west-bound train.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">When she hove in sight far up the track,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">She was workin' steam, with her brake shoes slack,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">She hollered once at the whistle post,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Then she flitted by like a frightened ghost.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">He could hear the roar of the big six-wheel,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And her driver's pound on the polished steel,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the screech of her flanges on the rail<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">As she beat it west o'er the desert trail.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">The John got busy and took the risk,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He climbed aboard and began to frisk,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He reached up high and began to feel<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">For the end-door pin — then he cracked the seal.<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_171">p. 171</a>
						</span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">'Twas a double-decked stock-car, filled with sheep,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Old John crawled in and went to sleep.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">She whistled twice and high-balled out,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">They were off, down the Gila Monster Route.<br/></span>
						<span class="i11">
							<i>L. F. Post and Glenn Norton.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
				</div>
				<hr class="major"/>
				<p class="newpoem">
					<span class="pagenum">
						<a id="Page_172">p. 172</a>
					</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3><a id="THE_CALL_OF_THE_PLAINS"/>THE CALL OF THE PLAINS</h3>
				<div class="poem">
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">HO! wind of the far, far prairies!<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Free as the waves of the sea!<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Your voice is sweet as in alien street<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The cry of a friend to me!<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">You bring me the breath of the prairies,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Known in the days that are sped,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The wild geese's cry and the blue, blue sky<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the sailing clouds o'er head!<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">My eyes are weary with longing<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">For a sight of the sage grass gray,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">For the dazzling light of a noontide bright<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the joy of the open day!<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Oh, to hear once more the clanking<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Of the noisy cowboy's spur,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the south wind's kiss like a mild caress<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Making the grasses stir.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">I dream of the wide, wide prairies<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Touched with their glistening sheen,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The coyotes' cry and the wind-swept sky<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the waving billows of green!<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And oh, for a night in the open<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Where no sound discordant mars,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the marvelous glow, when the sun is low,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the silence under the stars!<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_173">p. 173</a>
						</span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Ho, wind from the western prairies!<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Ho, voice from a far domain!<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I feel in your breath what I'll feel till death,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The call of the plains again!<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The call of the Spirit of Freedom<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">To the spirit of freedom in me;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">My heart leaps high with a jubilant cry<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And I answer in ecstasy!<br/></span>
						<span class="i13">
							<i>Ethel MacDiarmid.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
				</div>
				<hr class="major"/>
				<p class="newpoem">
					<span class="pagenum">
						<a id="Page_174">p. 174</a>
					</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3><a id="WHERE_THE_GRIZZLY_DWELLS"/>WHERE THE GRIZZLY DWELLS<a id="FNanchor_4"/><a class="fnanchor pginternal" href="#Footnote_4">[4]</a></h3>
				<div class="poem">
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">I ADMIRE the artificial art of the East;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But I love more the inimitable art of the West,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Where nature's handiwork lies in virginal beauty.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Amidst the hum of city life<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I saunter back to dreams of home.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Astride the back of my trusty steed<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I wander away, losing myself<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">In the foothills of the Rockies.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Away from human habitations,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Up the rugged slopes,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Through the timbered stretches,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I hear the frightful cry of wolves<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And see a bear sneaking up behind.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Many nights ago,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">While herding a bunch of cattle<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">During the round-up season,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I lay upon the grass<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Looking at the mated stars;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I wondered if a cowboy<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Could go to the Unknown Place,<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_175">p. 175</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">The Happy Hunting Ground,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">When this short life is over.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">But, here or there, I shall always live<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">In the land of mountain air<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Where the grizzly dwells<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And sage brush grows;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Where mountain trout are not a few;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">In the land of the Bitterroot,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The Indian land,— Land of the Golden West.<br/></span>
						<span class="i14">
							<i>James Fox.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
				</div>
				<div class="footnote">
					<a id="Footnote_4"/><a class="pginternal" href="#FNanchor_4">
						<span class="label">4</span>
					</a>
					<p>Fox is a halfbreed Indian who sent me a lot of verse. Although he had never heard of Walt Whitman, these stanzas suggest that poet. The spelling and punctuation are mine.</p>
				</div>
				<hr class="major"/>
				<p class="newpoem">
					<span class="pagenum">
						<a id="Page_176">p. 176</a>
					</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3><a id="A_COWBOY_TOAST"/>A COWBOY TOAST</h3>
				<div class="poem">
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">HERE'S to the passing cowboy, the plowman's pioneer;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">His home, the boundless mesa, he of any man the peer;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Around his wide sombrero was stretched the rattler's hide,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">His bridle sporting conchos, his lasso at his side.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">All day he roamed the prairies, at night he, with the stars,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Kept vigil o'er thousands held by neither posts nor bars;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">With never a diversion in all the lonesome land,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But cattle, cattle, cattle, and sun and sage and sand.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Sometimes the hoot-owl hailed him, when scudding through the flat;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And prairie dogs would sauce him, as at their doors they sat;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The rattler hissed its warning when near its haunts he trod<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Some Texas steer pursuing o'er the pathless waste of sod.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">With lasso, quirt, and 'colter the cowboy knew his skill;<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_177">p. 177</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">They pass with him to history and naught their place can fill;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">While he, bold broncho rider, ne'er conned a lesson page,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But cattle, cattle, cattle, and sun and sand and sage.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">And oh! the long night watches, with terror in the skies!<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">When lightning played and mocked him till blinded were his eyes;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">When raged the storm around him, and fear was in his heart<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Lest panic-stricken leaders might make the whole herd start.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">That meant a death for many, perhaps a wild stampede,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">When none could stem the fury of the cattle in the lead;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Ah, then life seemed so little and death so very near,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">With cattle, cattle, cattle, and darkness everywhere.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Then quaff with me a bumper of water, clear and pure,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">To the memory of the cowboy whose fame must e'er endure<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">From the Llano Estacado to Dakota's distant sands,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Where were herded countless thousands in the days of fenceless lands.<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_178">p. 178</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">Let us rear for him an altar in the Temple of the Brave,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And weave of Texas grasses a garland for his grave;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And offer him a guerdon for the work that he has done<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">With cattle, cattle, cattle, and sage and sand and sun.<br/></span>
						<span class="i12">
							<i>James Barton Adams.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
				</div>
				<hr class="major"/>
				<p class="newpoem">
					<span class="pagenum">
						<a id="Page_179">p. 179</a>
					</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3><a id="RIDIN_UP_THE_ROCKY_TRAIL_FROM_TOWN"/>RIDIN' UP THE ROCKY TRAIL FROM TOWN</h3>
				<div class="poem">
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i5">"Billy Leamont rode out of the town —<br/></span>
						<span class="i6">
							<i>Close at his shoulder rode Jack Lorell —</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
						<span class="i5">Over the leagues of the prairies brown,<br/></span>
						<span class="i5">Into the hills where the sun goes down —<br/></span>
						<span class="i6">
							<i>Billy Leamont and Jack Lorell!</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i11">*   *   *<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i5">Billy Leamont looked down the dell —<br/></span>
						<span class="i6">
							<i>Dead below; him lay Jack Lorell —</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
						<span class="i5">With his gun at his forehead he fired and fell,<br/></span>
						<span class="i5">Then rode they two through the streets of hell —<br/></span>
						<span class="i6"><i>Billy Leamont and Jack Lorell!</i>"<br/></span>
						<span class="i11">
							<span class="smcap" style="font-size: x-small">The Ballad of Billy Leamont.</span>
							<a id="FNanchor_5"/><a class="fnanchor pginternal" href="#Footnote_5">[5]</a>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">WE'RE the children of the open and we hate the haunts o' men,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But we had to come to town to get the mail.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And we're ridin' home at daybreak — 'cause the air is cooler then —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">All 'cept one of us that stopped behind in jail.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Shorty's nose won't bear paradin', Bill's off eye is darkly fadin',<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">All our toilets show a touch of disarray,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">For we found that City life is a constant round of strife<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And we aint the breed for shyin' from a fray.<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_180">p. 180</a>
						</span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza" style="font-style: italic">
						<span class="i0">Chant your warhoops, pardners, dear, while the east turns pale with fear<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the chaparral is tremblin' all aroun'<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">For we're wicked to the marrer; we're a midnight dream of terror<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">When we're ridin' up the rocky trail from town!<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">We acquired our hasty temper from our friend, the centipede.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">From the rattlesnake we learnt to guard our rights.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">We have gathered fightin' pointers from the famous bronco steed<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the bobcat teached us reppertee that bites.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">So when some high-collared herrin' jeered the garb that I was wearin'<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">'Twasn't long till we had got where talkin' ends,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And he et his ill-bred chat, with a sauce of derby hat,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">While my merry pardners entertained his friends.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza" style="font-style: italic">
						<span class="i0">Sing 'er out, my buckeroos! Let the desert hear the news.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Tell the stars the way we rubbed the haughty down.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">We're the fiercest wolves a-prowlin' and it's just our night for howlin'<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">When we're ridin' up the rocky trail from town.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Since the days that Lot and Abram split the Jordan range in halves,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Just to fix it so their punchers wouldn't fight,<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_181">p. 181</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">Since old Jacob skinned his dad-in-law of six years' crop of calves<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And then hit the trail for Canaan in the night,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">There has been a taste for battle 'mong the men that follow cattle<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And a love of doin' things that's wild and strange.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the warmth of Laban's words when he missed his speckled herds<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Still is useful in the language of the range.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza" style="font-style: italic">
						<span class="i0">Sing 'er out, my bold coyotes! leather fists and leather throats,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">For we wear the brand of Ishm'el like a crown.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">We're the sons o' desolation, we're the outlaws of creation —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Ee-Yow! a-ridin' up the rocky trail from town!<br/></span>
					</div>
				</div>
				<div class="footnote">
					<p><a id="Footnote_5"/><a class="pginternal" href="#FNanchor_5"><span class="label">5</span></a> This fragment is not included in Mr. Clark's poem.</p>
				</div>
				<hr class="major"/>
				<p class="newpoem">
					<span class="pagenum">
						<a id="Page_182">p. 182</a>
					</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3><a id="THE_DISAPPOINTED_TENDERFOOT"/>THE DISAPPOINTED TENDERFOOT</h3>
				<div class="poem">
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">HE reached the West in a palace car where the writers tell us the cowboys are,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">With the redskin bold and the centipede and the rattlesnake and the loco weed.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He looked around for the Buckskin Joes and the things he'd seen in the Wild West shows —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The cowgirls gay and the bronchos wild and the painted face of the Injun child.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He listened close for the fierce war-whoop, and his pent-up spirits began to droop,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And he wondered then if the hills and nooks held none of the sights of the story books.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">He'd hoped he would see the marshal pot some bold bad man with a pistol shot,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And entered a low saloon by chance, where the tenderfoot is supposed to dance<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">While the cowboy shoots at his bootheels there and the smoke of powder begrims the air,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But all was quiet as if he'd strayed to that silent spot where the dead are laid.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Not even a faro game was seen, and none flaunted the long, long green.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">'Twas a blow for him who had come in quest of a touch of the real wild woolly West.<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_183">p. 183</a>
						</span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">He vainly sought for a bad cayuse and the swirl and swish of the flying noose,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the cowboy's yell as he roped a steer, but nothing of this fell on his ear.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Not even a wide-brimmed hat he spied, but derbies flourished on every side,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the spurs and the "chaps" and the flannel shirts, the high-heeled boots and the guns and the quirts,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The cowboy saddles and silver bits and fancy bridles and swell outfits<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">He'd read about in the novels grim, were not on hand for the likes of him.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">He peered about for a stagecoach old, and a miner-man with a bag of gold,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And a burro train with its pack-loads which he'd read they tie with the diamond hitch.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The rattler's whir and the coyote's wail ne'er sounded out as he hit the trail;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And no one knew of a branding bee or a steer <ins class="transcriber" title="Transcriber’s note: unhyphenated in original.">roundup</ins> that he longed to see.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">But the oldest settler named Six-Gun Sim rolled a cigarette and remarked to him:<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">"The West hez gone to the East, my son, and it's only in tents sich things is done."<br/></span>
						<span class="i13">
							<i>E. A. Brinninstool.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
				</div>
				<hr class="major"/>
				<p class="newpoem">
					<span class="pagenum">
						<a id="Page_184">p. 184</a>
					</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3><a id="A_COWBOY_ALONE_WITH_HIS_CONSCIENCE"/>A COWBOY ALONE WITH HIS CONSCIENCE</h3>
				<div class="poem">
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">WHEN I ride into the mountains on my little broncho bird,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Whar my ears are never pelted with the bawlin' o' the herd,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' a sort o' dreamy quiet hangs upon the western air,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' thar ain't no animation to be noticed anywhere;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Then I sort o' feel oneasy, git a notion in my head<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I'm the only livin' mortal — everybody else is dead —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' I feel a queer sensation, rather skeery like, an' odd,<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">When thar ain't nobody near me, 'ceptin' God.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Every rabbit that I startle from its shaded restin' place,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Seems a furry shaft o' silence shootin' into noiseless space,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' a rattlesnake a crawlin' through the rocks so old an' gray<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Helps along the ghostly feelin' in a rather startlin' way.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Every breeze that dares to whisper does it with a bated breath,<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_185">p. 185</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">Every bush stands grim an' silent in a sort o' livin' death —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Tell you what, a feller's feelin's give him many an icy prod,<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">When thar ain't nobody near him, 'ceptin' God.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Somehow allus git to thinkin' o' the error o' my ways,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' my memory goes wingin' back to childhood's happy days,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">When a mother, now a restin' in the grave so dark an' deep,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Used to listen while I'd whisper, "Now I lay me down to sleep."<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Then a sort o' guilty feelin' gits a surgin' in my breast,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' I wonder how I'll stack up at the final judgment test,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Conscience allus welts it to me with a mighty cuttin' rod,<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">When thar ain't nobody near me, 'ceptin' God.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">Take the very meanest sinner that the nation ever saw,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">One that don't respect religion more'n he respects the law,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">One that never does an action that's commendable or good,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' immerse him fur a season out in Nature's solitude,<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_186">p. 186</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">An' the cog-wheels o' his conscience 'll be rattled out o' gear,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">More'n if he 'tended preachin' every Sunday in the year,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Fur his sins 'ill come a ridin' through his cranium rough shod,<br/></span>
						<span class="i1">When thar ain't nobody near him, 'ceptin' God.<br/></span>
						<span class="i12">
							<i>James Barton Adams.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
				</div>
				<hr class="major"/>
				<p class="newpoem">
					<span class="pagenum">
						<a id="Page_187">p. 187</a>
					</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3><a id="JUST_A-RIDIN"/>JUST A-RIDIN'!</h3>
				<div class="poem">
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">OH, for me a horse and saddle<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Every day without a change;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">With the desert sun a-blazin'<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">On a hundred miles o' range,<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i2">Just a-ridin', just a-ridin',<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">Desert ripplin' in the sun,<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">Mountains blue along the skyline,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">I don't envy anyone.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">When my feet are in the stirrups<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And my horse is on the bust;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">When his hoofs are flashin' lightnin'<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">From a golden cloud o' dust;<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the bawlin' of the cattle<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Is a-comin' down the wind,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Oh, a finer life than ridin'<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Would be mighty hard to find,<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i2">Just a-ridin', just a-ridin',<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">Splittin' long cracks in the air,<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">Stirrin' up a baby cyclone,<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">Rootin' up the prickly pear.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">I don't need no art exhibits<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">When the sunset does his best,<br/></span>
						<span class="pagenum">
							<a id="Page_188">p. 188</a>
						</span>
						<span class="i0">Paintin' everlastin' glories<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">On the mountains of the west.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And your operas look foolish<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">When the night bird starts his tune<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the desert's silver-mounted<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">By the kisses of the moon,<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i2">Just a-ridin', just a-ridin',<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">I don't envy kings nor czars<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">When the coyotes down the valley<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">Are a-singin' to the stars.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">When my earthly trail is ended<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And my final bacon curled,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And the last great round up's finished<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">At the Home Ranch of the world,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">I don't want no harps or haloes,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Robes or other dress-up things, —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Let me ride the starry ranges<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">On a pinto horse with wings,<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i2">Just a-ridin', just a-ridin',<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">Splittin' chunks o' wintry air,<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">With your feet froze to your stirrups<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">And a snowdrift in your hair.<br/></span>
						<span class="i2">
							<i>(As sent by Elwood Adams, a Colorado</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
						<span class="i2">
							<i>cowpuncher.) See "Sun and Saddle</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
						<span class="i2">
							<i>Leather," by Charles Badger Clark, Jr.</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
				</div>
				<hr class="major"/>
				<p class="newpoem">
					<span class="pagenum">
						<a id="Page_189">p. 189</a>
					</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3><a id="THE_END_OF_THE_TRAIL"/>THE END OF THE TRAIL</h3>
				<div class="poem">
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">SOH, Bossie, soh!<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The water's handy heah,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The grass is plenty neah,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' all the stars a-sparkle<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Bekaze we drive no mo'—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">We drive no mo'.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">The long trail ends today, —<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The long trail ends today,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">The punchers go to play<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And all you weary cattle<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">May sleep in peace for sure,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">May sleep in peace for sure,—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Sleep, sleep for sure.<br/></span>
					</div>
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">The moon can't bite you heah,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Nor punchers fright you heah.<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">An' you-all will be beef befo'<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">We need you any mo',—<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">We need you any mo'!<br/></span>
						<span class="i10">
							<i>From Pocock's "Curley."</i>
							<br/>
						</span>
					</div>
				</div>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
