<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Part I: Cowboy Yarns</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="part-1" epub:type="part">
			<header>
				<hgroup>
					<h2>
						<span epub:type="label">Part</span>
						<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</span>
					</h2>
					<p epub:type="title">Cowboy Yarns</p>
				</hgroup>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem epigraph">
					<p>
						<span>The centipede runs across my head,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The vinegaroon crawls in my bed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Tarantulas jump and scorpions play,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The broncs are grazing far away,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The rattlesnake gives his warning cry,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the coyotes sing their lullaby,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>While I sleep soundly beneath the sky.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</header>
			<article id="out-where-the-west-begins" epub:type="z3998:song">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Out Where the West Begins</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Out where the handclasp’s a little stronger,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out where the smile dwells a little longer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">That’s where the West begins;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out where the sun is a little brighter,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the snows that fall are a trifle whiter,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the bonds of home are a wee bit tighter,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">That’s where the West begins.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Out where the skies are a trifle bluer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out where friendship’s a little truer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">That’s where the West begins;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out where a fresher breeze is blowing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where there’s laughter in every streamlet flowing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where there’s more of reaping and less of sowing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">That’s where the West begins.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Out where the world is in the making,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where fewer hearts in despair are aching,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">That’s where the West begins;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where there’s more of singing and less of sighing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where there’s more of giving and less of buying,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a man makes friends without half trying,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">That’s where the West begins.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p>
						<cite>Arthur Chapman.</cite>
					</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="the-shallows-of-the-ford" epub:type="z3998:song">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Shallows of the Ford</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Did you ever wait for daylight when the stars along the river</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Floated thick and white as snowflakes in the water deep and strange,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till a whisper through the aspens made the current break and shiver</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As the frosty edge of morning seemed to melt and spread and change?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Once I waited, almost wishing that the dawn would never find me;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Saw the sun roll up the ranges like the glory of the Lord;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was about to wake my pardner who was sleeping close behind me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When I saw the man we wanted spur his pony to the ford.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Saw the ripples of the shallows and the muddy streaks that followed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As the pony stumbled toward me in the narrows of the bend;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Saw the face I used to welcome, wild and watchful, lined and hollowed;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And God knows I wished to warn him, for I once had called him friend.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But an oath had come between us⁠—I was paid by Law and Order;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He was outlaw, rustler, killer⁠—so the border whisper ran;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Left his word in Caliente that he’d cross the Rio border⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Call me coward? But I hailed him⁠—“Riding close to daylight, Dan!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Just a hair and he’d have got me, but my voice, and not the warning,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Caught his hand and held him steady; then he nodded, spoke my name,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reined his pony round and fanned it in the bright and silent morning,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Back across the sunlit Rio up the trail on which he came.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He had passed his word to cross it⁠—I had passed my word to get him⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We broke even and we knew it; ’twas a case of give and take</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For old times. I could have killed him from the brush; instead, I let him</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ride his trail⁠—I turned⁠—my pardner flung his arm and stretched awake;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Saw me standing in the open; pulled his gun and came beside me;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Asked a question with his shoulder as his left hand pointed toward</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Muddy streaks that thinned and vanished⁠—not a word, but hard he eyed me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As the water cleared and sparkled in the shallows of the ford.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p>
						<cite>Henry Herbert Knibbs.</cite>
					</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="the-dance-at-silver-valley" epub:type="z3998:song">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Dance at Silver Valley</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">Don’t you hear the big spurs jingle?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Don’t you feel the red blood tingle?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Be it smile or be it frown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Be it dance or be it fight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Broncho Bill has come to town</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">To dance a dance tonight.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Chaps, sombrero, handkerchief, silver spurs at heel;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Hello, Gil!” and “Hello, Pete!” “How do you think you feel?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Drinks are mine. Come fall in, boys; crowd up on the right.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here’s happy days and honey joys. I’m going to dance tonight.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(On his hip in leathern tube, a case of dark blue steel.)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Bill, the broncho buster, from the ranch at Beaver Bend,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ninety steers and but one life in his hands to spend;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ready for a fight or spree; ready for a race;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Going blind with bridle loose every inch of space.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Down at Johnny Schaeffer’s place, see them trooping in,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Up above the women laugh; down below is gin.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Belle McClure is dressed in blue, ribbon in her hair;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Broncho Bill is shaved and slick, all his throat is bare.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Round and round with Belle McClure he whirls a dizzy spin.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Jim Kershaw, the gambler, waits⁠—white his hands and slim.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bill whispers, “Belle, you know it well; it is me or him.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Jim Kershaw, so help me God, if you dance with Belle</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is either you or me must travel down to hell.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Jim put his arm around her waist, her graceful waist and slim.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Don’t you hear the banjo laugh? Hear the fiddles scream?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Broncho Bill leaned at the door, watched the twirling stream.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Twenty fiends were at his heart snarling, “Kill him sure.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Out of hell that woman came.) “I love you, Belle McClure.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Broncho Bill, he laughed and chewed and careless he did seem.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The dance is done. Shots crack as one. The crowd shoves for the door.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Broncho Bill is lying there and blood upon the floor.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“You’ve finished me; you’ve gambler’s luck; you’ve won the trick and Belle.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mine the soul that here tonight is passing down to hell.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I must ride the trail alone. Goodbye to Belle McClure.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Downstairs on the billiard cloth, something lying white,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upstairs still the dance goes on, all the lamps are bright.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Round and round in merry spin⁠—on the floor a blot;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Laugh, and chaff and merry spin⁠—such a little spot.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Broncho Bill has come to town and danced his dance tonight.</span>
				</p>
				<p class="vocals">
					<span class="i2">Don’t you hear the fiddle shrieking?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Don’t you hear the banjo speaking?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Don’t you hear the big spurs jingle?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Don’t you feel the red blood tingle?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Faces dyed with desert brown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">(One that’s set and white);</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Broncho Bill has come to town</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And danced his dance tonight.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p>
						<cite>William Maxwell.</cite>
					</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="the-legend-of-boastful-bill" epub:type="z3998:song">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Legend of Boastful Bill</h3>
				<p>
					<span>At a round-up on the Gila</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One sweet morning long ago,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ten of us was throwed quite freely</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By a hoss from Idaho.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ we ’lowed he’d go a-beggin’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For a man to break his pride</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till, a-hitchin’ up one leggin’,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Boastful Bill cut loose an’ cried:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">“I’m a ornery proposition for to hurt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">I fulfil my earthly mission with a quirt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">I can ride the highest liver</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">’Twixt the Gulf an’ Powder River,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">An’ I’ll break this thing as easy as I’d flirt.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So Bill climbed the Northern fury</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ they mangled up the air</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till a native of Missouri</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would have owned the brag was fair.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though the plunges kept him reelin’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ the wind it flapped his shirt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Loud above the hoss’s squealin’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We could hear our friend assert:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">“I’m the one to take such rockin’s as a joke;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Someone hand me up the makin’s of a smoke.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">If you think my fame needs brightnin’,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Why, I’ll rope a streak o’ lightnin’</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">An’ spur it up an’ quirt it till it’s broke.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then one caper of repulsion</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Broke that hoss’s back in two,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cinches snapped in the convulsion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Skyward man and saddle flew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Up they mounted, never flaggin’,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And we watched them through our tears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While this last, thin bit o’ braggin’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Came a-floatin’ to our ears:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">“If you ever watched my habits very close,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">You would know I broke such rabbits by the gross.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">I have kept my talent hidin’,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">I’m too good for earthly ridin’,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">So I’m off to bust the lightnin’⁠—<i xml:lang="es">Adiós!</i>”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Years have passed since that ascension;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Boastful Bill ain’t never lit;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So we reckon he’s a-wrenchin’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some celestial outlaw’s bit.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the night wind flaps our slickers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the rain is cold and stout,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the lightnin’ flares and flickers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We can sometimes hear him shout:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">“I’m a ridin’ son o’ thunder o’ the sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">I’m a broncho twistin’ wonder on the fly.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Hey, you earthlin’s, shut your winders,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">We’re a-rippin’ clouds to flinders.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">If this blue-eyed darlin’ kicks at you, you die.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Star-dust on his chaps and saddle,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Scornful still of jar and jolt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He’ll come back sometime a-straddle</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of a bald-faced thunderbolt;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the thin-skinned generation</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of that dim and distant day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sure will stare with admiration</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When they hear old Boastful say:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">“I was first, as old raw-hiders all confest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">I’m the last of all rough riders, and the best.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Huh! you soft and dainty floaters</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">With your aeroplanes and motors,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Huh! are you the greatgrandchildren of the West?”</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p>
						<cite>From recitation, original, by Charles Badger Clark, <abbr class="eoc">Jr.</abbr></cite>
					</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="the-texas-cowboy-and-the-mexican-greaser" epub:type="z3998:song">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Texas Cowboy and the Mexican Greaser</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I think we can all remember when a Greaser hadn’t no show</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In Palo Pinto particular⁠—it ain’t very long ago;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A powerful feelin’ of hatred ag’in the whole Greaser race</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That murdered bold Crockett and Bowie pervaded all in the place.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why, the boys would draw on a Greaser as quick as they would on a steer;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They was shot down without warnin’ often, in the memory of many here.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One day the bark of pistols was heard ringin’ out in the air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a Greaser, chased by some ranchmen, tore round here into the square.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I don’t know what he’s committed⁠—’tain’t likely anyone knew⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I wouldn’t bet a check on the issue; if you knew the gang, neither would you.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Breathless and bleeding, the Greaser fell down by the side of the wall;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a man sprang out before him⁠—a man both strong and tall⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By his clothes I should say a cowboy⁠—a stranger in town, I think⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With his pistol he waved back the gang, who was wild with rage and drink.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I warn ye, get back!” he said, “or I’ll blow your heads in two!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A dozen on one poor creature, and him wounded and bleeding, too!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The gang stood back for a minute; then up spoke Poker Bill:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Young man, yer a stranger, I reckon. We don’t wish yer any ill;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But come out of the range of the Greaser, or, as sure as I live, you’ll croak;”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he drew a bead on the stranger. I’ll tell yer it wa’n’t no joke.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the stranger moven’ no muscle as he looked in the bore of Bill’s gun;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He hadn’t no thought to stir, sir; he hadn’t no thought to run;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But he spoke out cool and quiet, “I might live for a thousand year</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And not die at last so nobly as defendin’ this Greaser here;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For he’s wounded, now, and helpless, and hasn’t had no fair show;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the first of ye boys that strikes him, I’ll lay that first one low.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The gang respected the stranger that for another was willing to die;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They respected the look of daring they saw in that cold, blue eye.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They saw before them a hero that was glad in the right to fall;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he was a Texas cowboy⁠—never heard of Rome at all.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Don’t tell me of yer Romans, or yer bridge bein’ held by three;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>True manhood’s the same in Texas as it was in Rome, d’ye see?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Did the Greaser escape? Why certain. I saw the hull crowd over thar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At the ranch of Bill Simmons, the gopher, with their glasses over the bar.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p>
						<cite>From recitation. Anonymous.</cite>
					</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="broncho-versus-bicycle" epub:type="z3998:song">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Broncho Versus Bicycle</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The first that we saw of the high-tone tramp</span>
					<br/>
					<span>War over thar at our Pecos camp;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He war comin’ down the Santa Fé trail</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Astride of a wheel with a crooked tail,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A-skinnin’ along with a merry song</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ a-ringin’ a little warnin’ gong.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He looked so outlandish, strange and queer</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That all of us grinned from ear to ear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And every boy on the round-up swore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He never seed sich a hoss before.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Wal, up he rode with a sunshine smile</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ a-smokin’ a cigarette, an’ I’ll</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be kicked in the neck if I ever seen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sich a saddle as that on his queer machine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why, it made us laugh, fer it wasn’t half</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Big enough fer the back of a suckin’ calf.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He tuk our fun in a keerless way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A-venturin’ only once to say</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thar wasn’t a broncho about the place</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Could down that wheel in a ten-mile race.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I’d a lightnin’ broncho out in the herd</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That could split the air like a flyin’ bird,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ I hinted round in an off-hand way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That, providin’ the enterprize would pay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I thought as I might jes’ happen to light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On a hoss that would leave him out er sight.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In less’n a second we seen him yank</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A roll o’ greenbacks out o’ his flank,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ he said if we wanted to bet, to name</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The limit, an’ he would tackle the game.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Jes’ a week before we had all been down</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On a jamboree to the nearest town,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ the whiskey joints and the faro games</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ a-shakin’ our hoofs with the dance hall dames,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Made a wholesale bust; an’, pard, I’ll be cussed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If a man in the outfit had any dust.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ so I explained, but the youth replied</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That he’d lay the money matter aside,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ to show that his back didn’t grow no moss</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He’d bet his machine against my hoss.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I tuk him up, an’ the bet war closed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ me a-chucklin’, fer I supposed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I war playin’ in dead-sure, winnin’ luck</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the softest snap I had ever struck.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ the boys chipped in with a knowin’ grin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fer they thought the fool had no chance to win.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ so we agreed fer to run that day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the Navajo cross, ten miles away⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As handsome a track as you ever seed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fer testin’ a hosses prettiest speed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Apache Johnson and Texas Ned</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Saddled up their hosses an’ rode ahead</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To station themselves ten miles away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ act as judges an’ see fair play;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While Mexican Bart and big Jim Hart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stayed back fer to give us an even start.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I got aboard of my broncho bird</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ we came to the scratch an’ got the word;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ I laughed till my mouth spread from ear to ear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To see that tenderfoot drop to the rear.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The first three miles slipped away first-rate;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then bronc began fer to lose his gait.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I warn’t oneasy an’ didn’t mind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With tenderfoot more’n a mile behind.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So I jogged along with a cowboy song</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till all of a sudden I heard that gong</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A-ringin’ a warnin’ in my ear⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i>Ting, ting, ting, ting,</i>⁠—too infernal near;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ lookin’ backwards I seen that chump</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of a tenderfoot gainin’ every jump.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I hit old bronc a cut with the quirt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ once more got him to scratchin’ dirt;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But his wind got weak, an’ I tell you, boss,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I seen he wasn’t no ten-mile hoss.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still, the plucky brute took another shoot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ pulled away from the wheel galoot.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the animal couldn’t hold his gait;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ the idea somehow entered my pate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That if tenderfoot’s legs didn’t lose their grip</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He’d own that hoss at the end of the trip.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Closer an’ closer come tenderfoot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ harder the whip to the hoss I put;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the Eastern cuss, with a smile on his face</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ran up to my side with his easy pace⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rode up to my side, an’ dern his hide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Remarked ’twere a pleasant day fer a ride;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then axed, onconcerned, if I had a match,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ on his britches give it a scratch,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lit a cigarette, said he wished me good-day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ as fresh as a daisy scooted away.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ahead he went, that infernal gong</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A-ringin’ “good-day” as he flew along,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ the smoke from his cigarette came back</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a vaporous snicker along his track.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On an’ on he sped, gettin’ further ahead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His feet keepin’ up that onceaseable tread,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till he faded away in the distance, an’ when</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I seed the condemned Eastern rooster again</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He war thar with the boys at the end of the race,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That same keerless, onconsarned smile on his face.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now, pard, when a cowboy gits licked he don’t swar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor kick, if the beatin’ are done on the squar;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So I tuck that Easterner right by the hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ told him that broncho awaited his brand.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then I axed him his name, an’ where from he came,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ how long he’d practiced that wheel-rollin’ game.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tom Stevens he said war his name, an’ he come</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From a town they call Bosting, in old Yankeedom.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then he jist paralyzed us by sayin’ he’d whirled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That very identical wheel round the world.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Wal, pard, that’s the story of how that smart chap</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Done me up w’en I thought I had sich a soft snap,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Done me up on a race with remarkable ease,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ lowered my pride a good many degrees.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Did I give him the hoss? W’y o’ course I did, boss,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ I tell you it warn’t no diminutive loss.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He writ me a letter from back in the East,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ said he presented the neat little beast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To a feller named Pope, who stands at the head</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O’ the ranch where the cussed wheel hosses are bred.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p>
						<cite>Anonymous.</cite>
					</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="riders-of-the-stars" epub:type="z3998:song">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Riders of the Stars</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Twenty abreast down the Golden Street ten thousand riders marched;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bow-legged boys in their swinging chaps, all clumsily keeping time;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the Angel Host to the lone, last ghost their delicate eyebrows arched</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As the swaggering sons of the open range drew up to the throne sublime.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Gaunt and grizzled, a Texas man from out of the concourse strode,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And doffed his hat with a rude, rough grace, then lifted his eagle head;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sunlit air on his silvered hair and the bronze of his visage glowed;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Marster, the boys have a talk to make on the things up here,” he said.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A hush ran over the waiting throng as the Cherubim replied:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“He that readeth the hearts of men He deemeth your challenge strange,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though He long hath known that ye crave your own, that ye would not walk but ride,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh, restless sons of the ancient earth, ye men of the open range!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then warily spake the Texas man: “A petition and no complaint</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We here present, if the Law allows and the Marster He thinks it fit;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We-all agree to the things that be, but we’re longing for things that ain’t,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So we took a vote and we made a plan and here is the plan we writ:⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p class="vocals">
					<span>“ ‘Give us a range and our horses and ropes, open the Pearly Gate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And turn us loose in the unfenced blue riding the sunset rounds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hunting each stray in the Milky Way and running the Rancho straight;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not crowding the dogie stars too much on their way to the bedding-grounds.</span>
				</p>
				<p class="vocals">
					<span>“ ‘Maverick comets that’s running wild, we’ll rope ’em and brand ’em fair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So they’ll quit stampeding the starry herd and scaring the folks below,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And we’ll save ’em prime for the round-up time, and we riders’ll all be there,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ready and willing to do our work as we did in the long ago.</span>
				</p>
				<p class="vocals">
					<span>“ ‘We’ve studied the Ancient Landmarks, Sir; Taurus, the Bear, and Mars,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Venus a-smiling across the west as bright as a burning coal,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Plain to guide as we punchers ride night-herding the little stars,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With Saturn’s rings for our home corral and the Dipper our water hole.</span>
				</p>
				<p class="vocals">
					<span>“ ‘Here, we have nothing to do but yarn of the days that have long gone by,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And our singing it doesn’t fit in up here though we tried it for old time’s sake;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our hands are itching to swing a rope and our legs are stiff; that’s why</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We ask you, Marster, to turn us loose⁠—just give us an even break!’ ”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then the Lord He spake to the Cherubim, and this was His kindly word:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“He that keepeth the threefold keys shall open and let them go;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Turn these men to their work again to ride with the starry herd;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My glory sings in the toil they crave; ’tis their right. I would have it so.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Have you heard in the starlit dusk of eve when the lone coyotes roam,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The <i>Yip! Yip! Yip!</i> of a hunting cry and the echo that shrilled afar,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As you listened still on a desert hill and gazed at the twinkling dome,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a viewless rider swept the sky on the trail of a shooting star?</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p>
						<cite>Henry Herbert Knibbs.</cite>
					</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="lasca" epub:type="z3998:song">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Lasca</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I want free life, and I want fresh air;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I sigh for the canter after the cattle,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The crack of the whips like shots in battle,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The medley of hoofs and horns and heads</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That wars and wrangles and scatters and spreads;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The green beneath and the blue above,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And dash and danger, and life and love⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="dl2">
						<span>And Lasca!</span>
						<span>Lasca used to ride</span>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On a mouse-grey mustang close to my side,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With blue serape and bright-belled spur;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I laughed with joy as I looked at her!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Little knew she of books or creeds;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An Ave Maria sufficed her needs;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Little she cared save to be at my side,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To ride with me, and ever to ride,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From San Saba’s shore to Lavaca’s tide.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She was as bold as the billows that beat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She was as wild as the breezes that blow:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From her little head to her little feet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She was swayed in her suppleness to and fro</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By each gust of passion; a sapling pine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That grows on the edge of a Kansas bluff</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And wars with the wind when the weather is rough,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is like this Lasca, this love of mine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She would hunger that I might eat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would take the bitter and leave me the sweet;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But once, when I made her jealous for fun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At something I whispered or looked or done,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One Sunday, in San Antonio,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To a glorious girl in the Alamo,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She drew from her garter a little dagger,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And⁠—sting of a wasp⁠—it made me stagger!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An inch to the left, or an inch to the right,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I shouldn’t be maundering here tonight;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But she sobbed, and sobbing, so quickly bound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her torn rebosa about the wound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That I swiftly forgave her. Scratches don’t count</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">In Texas, down by the Rio Grande.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Her eye was brown⁠—a deep, deep brown;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her hair was darker than her eye;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And something in her smile and frown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Curled crimson lip and instep high,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Showed that there ran in each blue vein,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mixed with the milder Aztec strain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The vigorous vintage of Old Spain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She was alive in every limb</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With feeling, to the finger tips;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when the sun is like a fire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sky one shining, soft sapphire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One does not drink in little sips.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="elision">⋮</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The air was heavy, the night was hot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I sat by her side and forgot, forgot;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forgot the herd that were taking their rest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forgot that the air was close oppressed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That the Texas norther comes sudden and soon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the dead of the night or the blaze of the noon;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That, once let the herd at its breath take fright,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nothing on earth can stop their flight;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And woe to the rider, and woe to the steed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That falls in front of their mad stampede!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="elision">⋮</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was that thunder? I grasped the cord</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of my swift mustang without a word.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I sprang to the saddle, and she clung behind.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Away! on a hot chase down the wind!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But never was fox-hunt half so hard,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And never was steed so little spared.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For we rode for our lives. You shall hear how we fared</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">In Texas, down by the Rio Grande.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The mustang flew, and we urged him on;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There was one chance left, and you have but one⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Halt, jump to the ground, and shoot your horse;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crouch under his carcass, and take your chance;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And if the steers in their frantic course</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Don’t batter you both to pieces at once,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You may thank your star; if not, goodbye</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the quickening kiss and the long-drawn sigh,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the open air and the open sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">In Texas, down by the Rio Grande.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The cattle gained on us, and, just as I felt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For my old six-shooter behind in my belt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Down came the mustang, and down came we,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clinging together⁠—and, what was the rest?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A body that spread itself on my breast,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Two arms that shielded my dizzy head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Two lips that hard to my lips were prest;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then came thunder in my ears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As over us surged the sea of steers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blows that beat blood into my eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when I could rise⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lasca was dead!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="elision">⋮</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I gouged out a grave a few feet deep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And there in the Earth’s arms I laid her to sleep;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And there she is lying, and no one knows;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the summer shines, and the winter snows;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For many a day the flowers have spread</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A pall of petals over her head;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the little grey hawk hangs aloft in the air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the sly coyote trots here and there,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the black snake glides and glitters and slides</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into the rift of a cottonwood tree;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the buzzard sails on,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And comes and is gone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stately and still, like a ship at sea.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I wonder why I do not care</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the things that are, like the things that were.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Does half my heart lie buried there</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">In Texas, down by the Rio Grande?</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p>
						<cite>Frank Desprez.</cite>
					</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="the-transformation-of-a-texas-girl" epub:type="z3998:song">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Transformation of a Texas Girl</h3>
				<p>
					<span>She was a Texas maiden, she came of low degree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her clothes were worn and faded, her feet from shoes were free;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her face was tanned and freckled, her hair was sun-burned, too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her whole darned <i xml:lang="fr">tout ensemble</i> was painful for to view!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She drove a lop-eared mule team attached unto a plow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The trickling perspiration exuding from her brow;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And often she lamented her cruel, cruel fate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As but a po’ white’s daughter down in the Lone Star State.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No courtiers came to woo her, she never had a beau,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her misfit face precluded such things as that, you know⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She was nobody’s darling, no feller’s solid girl,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And poets never called her an uncut Texas pearl.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her only two companions was those two flea-bit mules,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And these she but regarded as animated tools</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To plod along the furrows in patience up and down</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And pull the ancient wagon when pap’d go to town.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No fires of wild ambition were flaming in her soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her eyes with tender passion she’d never upward roll;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wondrous world she’d heard of, to her was but a dream</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As walked she in the furrows behind that lop-eared team.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Born on that small plantation, ’twas there she thought she’d die;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She never longed for pinions that she might rise and fly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To other lands far distant, where breezes fresh and cool</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would never shake and tremble from brayings of a mule.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="elision">⋮</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But yesterday we saw her dressed up in gorgeous style!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A half a dozen fellows were basking in her smile!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She’d jewels on her fingers, and jewels in her ears⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Great sparkling, flashing brilliants that hung as frozen tears!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The feet once nude and soil-stained were clad in Frenchy boots,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The once tanned face bore tintings of miscellaneous fruits;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The voice that once admonished the mules to move along</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was tuned to new-born music, as sweet as Siren’s song!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Her tall and lanky father, one knows as “Sleepy Jim,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is now addressed as Colonel by men who honor him;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And youths in finest raiment now take him by the paw,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each in the hope that some day he’ll call him dad-in-law.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their days of toil are over, their sun has risen at last,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A gold-embroidered curtain now hides their rocky past;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For was it not discovered their little patch of soil</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had rested there for ages above a flow of oil?</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p>
						<cite>James Barton Adams.</cite>
					</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="the-glory-trail" epub:type="z3998:song">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Glory Trail</h3>
				<p>
					<span>’Way high up the Mogollons,<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-1" id="noteref-1" epub:type="noteref">1</a></span>
					<br/>
					<span>Among the mountain tops,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A lion cleaned a yearlin’s bones</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And licked his thankful chops,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When on the picture who should ride,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A-trippin’ down the slope,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But High-Chin Bob, with sinful pride</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And mav’rick-hungry rope.</span>
				</p>
				<p class="vocals">
					<span>“Oh, glory be to me,” says he,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“And fame’s unfadin’ flowers!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All meddlin’ hands are far away;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I ride my good top-hawse today</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I’m top-rope of the Lazy J⁠⸺⁠</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hi! kitty cat, you’re ours!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>That lion licked his paw so brown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And dreamed soft dreams of veal⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then the circlin’ loop sung down</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And roped him ’round his meal.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He yowled quick fury to the world</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till all the hills yelled back;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The top-hawse gave a snort and whirled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Bob caught up the slack.</span>
				</p>
				<p class="vocals">
					<span>“Oh, glory be to me,” laughs he.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“We hit the glory trail.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No human man as I have read</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Darst loop a ragin’ lion’s head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor ever hawse could drag one dead</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Until we told the tale.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>’Way high up the Mogollons</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That top-hawse done his best,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through whippin’ brush and rattlin’ stones,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From canyon-floor to crest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But ever when Bob turned and hoped</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A limp remains to find,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A red-eyed lion, belly roped</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But healthy, loped behind.</span>
				</p>
				<p class="vocals">
					<span>“Oh, glory be to me,” grunts he,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“This glory trail is rough,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet even till the Judgment Morn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ll keep this dally ’round the horn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For never any hero born</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Could stoop to holler: ‘nuff!’ ”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Three suns had rode their circle home</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beyond the desert’s rim,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And turned their star herds loose to roam</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ranges high and dim;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet up and down and round and ’cross</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bob pounded, weak and wan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For pride still glued him to his hawse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And glory drove him on.</span>
				</p>
				<p class="vocals">
					<span>“Oh, glory be to me,” sighs he.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“He kaint be drug to death,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But now I know beyond a doubt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Them heroes I have read about</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was only fools that stuck it out</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To end of mortal breath.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>’Way high up the Mogollons</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A prospect man did swear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That moon dreams melted down his bones</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hoisted up his hair:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A ribby cow-hawse thundered by,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A lion trailed along,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A rider, ga’nt, but chin on high,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yelled out a crazy song.</span>
				</p>
				<p class="vocals">
					<span>“Oh, glory be to me!” cries he,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“And to my noble noose!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O stranger, tell my pards below</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I took a rampin’ dream in tow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And if I never lay him low,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ll never turn him loose!”</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p>
						<cite>Charles Badger Clark.</cite>
					</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="high-chin-bob" epub:type="z3998:song">
				<h3 epub:type="title">High Chin Bob</h3>
				<p>
					<span>’Way high up in the Mokiones, among the mountain tops,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A lion cleaned a yearling’s bones and licks his thankful chops;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And who upon the scene should ride, a-trippin’ down the slope,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But High Chin Bob of sinful pride and maverick-hungry rope.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">“Oh, glory be to me!” says he, “an’ fame’s unfadin’ flowers;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">I ride my good top hoss today and I’m top hand of Lazy-J,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">So, kitty-cat, you’re ours!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The lion licked his paws so brown, and dreamed soft dreams of veal,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As High Chin’s rope came circlin’ down and roped him round his meal;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She yowled quick fury to the world and all the hills yelled back;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That top horse gave a snort and whirled and Bob took up the slack.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">“Oh, glory be to me!” says he, “we’ll hit the glory trail.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">No man has looped a lion’s head and lived to drag the critter dead</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Till I shall tell the tale.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>’Way high up in the Mokiones that top hoss done his best,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Mid whippin’ brush and rattlin’ stones from canon-floor to crest;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Up and down and round and cross Bob pounded weak and wan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But pride still glued him to his hoss and glory spurred him on.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">“Oh, glory be to me!” says he, “this glory trail is rough!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">But I’ll keep this dally round the horn until the toot of judgment morn</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Before I’ll holler ’nough!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Three suns had rode their circle home, beyond the desert rim,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And turned their star herds loose to roam the ranges high and dim;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And whenever Bob turned and hoped the limp remains to find,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A red-eyed lion, belly roped, but healthy, loped behind!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">“Oh, glory be to me,” says Bob, “he caint be drug to death!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">These heroes that I’ve read about were only fools that stuck it out</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">To the end of mortal breath.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>’Way high up in the Mokiones, if you ever camp there at night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You’ll hear a rukus among the stones that’ll lift your hair with fright;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You’ll see a cow-hoss thunder by⁠—a lion trail along,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the rider bold, with his chin on high, sings forth his glory song:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">“Oh, glory be to me!” says he, “and to my mighty noose.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Oh, pardner, tell my friends below I took a ragin’ dream in tow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And if I didn’t lay him low, I never turned him loose!”</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p>
						<cite>From oral rendition.</cite>
					</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="to-hear-him-tell-it" epub:type="z3998:song">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To Hear Him Tell It</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I was just about to take a drink⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I was mighty dry⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So I hailed an old time cowman</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who was passing by,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Come in, Ole Timer! have a drink!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Kinda warm today!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As we leaned across the bar-rail⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“How’s things up your way?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Stock is doin’ fairly good,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Range is gettin’ fine;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I jes dropped down to meetin’ here</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To spend a little time.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Con’sidable stuff a-movin’ now⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cows an’ hosses, too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Prices high an’ a big demand⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now I’m tellin’ you!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“I’ve loaded out my feeders,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Got a good price all aroun’;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sold ’em in Kansas City</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To a commission man named Brown.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A thousand told o’ mixed stuff,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In pretty fair shape, too,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said the old Texas cowman,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Now I’m tellin’ you!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“I’ve been in this yere country</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Since late in fifty-nine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I know every foot o’ sage brush</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clear to the southern line.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Got my first bunch started up</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Long in seventy-two,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had to ride range with a long rope⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now I’m tellin’ you!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Lordy, I kin remember</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Them good ole early days</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When we ust t’ trail the herds north</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’N forty different ways.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Jes’n point ’em from the beddin’ groun’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ let ’em drift right through,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said the reminiscent cowman,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Now I’m tellin’ you!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Yessir, trailed ’em up to Wichita,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cross the Kansas line,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Made deliveries at Benton</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As early as fifty-nine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Turned ’em most to soldiers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some went to Injuns, too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beef wasn’t nigh so high then⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now I’m tellin’ you!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Son, I’ve fit nigh every Injun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That ever roamed the plains,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’N I was one o’ the best hands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That ever pulled bridle reins.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why, you boys don’t know range life⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You don’t seem to git the ways,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like we did down in Texas</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In them good ol’ early days!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Yes, thing’s a heap sight diff’rent now!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tain’t like in them ol’ days</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When cowmen trailed their herds north</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’N forty diff’rent ways.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We ship ’em on the railroad now,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Load out on the big <abbr>S. P.</abbr>,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Says the relic of Texas cowman</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As he takes a drink with me.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“I figger on buyin’ more feeders,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From down across the line⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Chihuahua an’ Sonora stuff,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ hold ’em till they’re prime.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So here’s to the steers an’ yearlin’s!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As we clink our glasses two,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Things ain’t the same as they used to be,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now I’m tellin’ you!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“I got t’ git out an’ hustle,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I ain’t got time t’ stay;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Jes’ want t’ see some uh the boys</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’N then I’m on my way.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There’s many a hand here right now</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That I know’d long, long ago,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When ranch land was free an’ open</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ the plowman had a show.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“ ’Tain’t often we git together</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To swap yarns an’ tell our lies,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said the old time Texas cowman</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As a mist comes to his eyes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“So let’s drink up; here’s how!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As we drain our glasses two,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Them was good ol’ days an’ good ol’ ways⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now I’m tellin’ you!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He talked and talked and yarned away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He harped on days of yore⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My head it ached and I grew faint;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My legs got tired and sore.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then a woman yelled, “You come here, John!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Lordy! how he flew!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the last I heard as he broke and ran</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was, “Now I’m tellin’ you!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I won’t never hail old timers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To have a drink with me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To learn the history of the range</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As far back as seventy-three.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the next time that I’m thirsty</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And feeling kind of blue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ll step right up and drink alone⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now I’m tellin’ you!</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p>
						<cite>From the Wild Bunch.</cite>
					</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="the-clowns-baby" epub:type="z3998:song">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Clown’s Baby</h3>
				<p>
					<span>It was on the western frontier⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The miners, rugged and brown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were gathered round the posters,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The circus had come to town!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The great tent shone in the darkness</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a wonderful palace of light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And rough men crowded the entrance⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shows didn’t come every night!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Not a woman’s face among them;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Many a face that was bad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And some that were only vacant,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And some that were very sad.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And behind a canvas curtain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In a corner of the place,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The clown, with chalk and vermillion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was “making up” his face.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A weary looking woman</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a smile that still was sweet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sewed on a little garment,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a cradle at her feet.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pantaloon stood ready and waiting,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was time for the going on;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the clown in vain searched wildly⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The “property baby” was gone!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He murmured, impatiently hunting,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“It’s strange that I cannot find⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There, I’ve looked in every corner;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It must have been left behind!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The miners were stamping and shouting,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They were not patient men;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The clown bent over the cradle⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I must take you, little Ben.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The mother started and shivered,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But trouble and want were near;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She lifted the baby gently,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“You’ll be very careful, dear?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Careful? You foolish darling!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How tenderly it was said!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What a smile shone through the chalk and paint!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I love each hair of his head!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The noise rose into an uproar,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Misrule for the time was king;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The clown with a foolish chuckle</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bolted into the ring.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But as, with a squeak and flourish,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fiddles closed their tune</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“You’ll hold him as if he were made of glass?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said the clown to the pantaloon.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The jovial fellow nodded,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I’ve a couple myself,” he said.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I know how to handle ’em, bless you!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Old fellow, go ahead!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fun grew fast and furious,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And not one of all the crowd</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had guessed that the baby was alive,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When he suddenly laughed aloud.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Oh, that baby laugh! It was echoed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the benches with a ring,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the roughest customer there sprang up</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With, “Boys, it’s the real thing.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ring was jammed in a minute,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not a man that did not strive</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For a “shot at holding the baby,”⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The baby that was alive!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He was thronged with kneeling suitors</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the midst of the dusty ring,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he held his court right royally⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fair little baby king⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till one of the shouting courtiers⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A man with a bold, hard face,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The talk, for miles, of the country,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the terror of the place,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Raised the little king to his shoulder</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And chuckled, “Look at that!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As the chubby fingers clutched his hair;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then, “Boys, hand round the hat!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There never was such a hatful</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of silver and gold and notes;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>People are not always penniless</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because they don’t wear coats.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And then, “Three cheers for the baby!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I tell you those cheers were meant,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the way that they were given</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was enough to raise the tent.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then there was sudden silence</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a gruff old miner said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Come boys, enough of this rumpus;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It’s time it was put to bed.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So, looking a little sheepish,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But with faces strangely bright,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The audience, somewhat lingering,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flocked out into the night.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the bold-faced leader chuckled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“He wasn’t a bit afraid!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He’s as game as he’s good-looking!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Boys, that was a show that <em>paid</em>!”</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p>
						<cite>Margaret Vandergrift.</cite>
					</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="the-drunken-desperado" epub:type="z3998:song">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Drunken Desperado</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I’m wild and woolly and full of fleas,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’m hard to curry below the knees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’m a she-wolf from Shamon Creek,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For I was dropped from a lightning streak</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And it’s my night to hollow⁠—Whoo‑pee!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I stayed in Texas till they runned me out,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then in Bull Frog they chased me about,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I walked a little and rode some more,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For I’ve shot up a town before</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And it’s my night to hollow⁠—Whoo‑pee!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Give me room and turn me loose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’m peaceable without excuse.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I never killed for profit or fun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But riled, I’m a regular son of a gun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And it’s my night to hollow⁠—Whoo‑pee!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Good-eye Jim will serve the crowd;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The rule goes here no sweetnin’ ’lowed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And we’ll drink now the Nixon kid,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For I rode to town and lifted the lid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And it’s my night to hollow⁠—Whoo‑pee!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You can guess how quick a man must be,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For I killed eleven and wounded three;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And brothers and daddies aren’t makin’ a sound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though they know where the kid is found</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And it’s my night to hollow⁠—Whoo‑pee!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When I get old and my aim aint true</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And it’s three to one and wounded, too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I won’t beg and claw the ground;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For I’ll be dead before I’m found</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When it’s my night to hollow⁠—Whoo‑pee!</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p>
						<cite>Baird Boyd.</cite>
					</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="marta-of-milrone" epub:type="z3998:song">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Marta of Milrone</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I shot him where the Rio flows;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I shot him when the moon arose;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And where he lies the vulture knows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Along the Tinto River.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In schools of eastern culture pale</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My cloistered flesh began to fail;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They bore me where the deserts quail</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To winds from out the sun.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I looked upon the land and sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor hoped to live nor feared to die;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And from my hollow breast a sigh</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fell o’er the burning waste.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But strong I grew and tall I grew;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I drank the region’s balm and dew⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It made me lithe in limb and thew⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How swift I rode and ran!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And oft it was my joy to ride</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Over the sand-blown ocean wide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While, ever smiling at my side,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rode Marta of Milrone.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A flood of horned heads before,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The trampled thunder, smoke and roar,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of full four thousand hoofs, or more⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A cloud, a sea, a storm!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Oh, wonderful the desert gleamed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As, man and maid, we spoke and dreamed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of love in life, till white wastes seemed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like plains of paradise.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Her eyes with Love’s great magic shone.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Be mine, O Marta of Milrone⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your hand, your heart be all my own!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her lips made sweet response.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“I love you, yes; for you are he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who from the East should come to me⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I have waited long!” Oh, we</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were happy as the sun.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>There came upon a hopeless quest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With hell and hatred in his breast,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A stranger, who his love confessed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Marta long in vain.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To me she spoke: “Chosen mate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His eyes are terrible with fate⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I fear his love, I fear his hate⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I fear some looming ill!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then to the church we twain did ride,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I kissed her as she rode beside.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How fair⁠—how passing fair my bride</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With gold combs in her hair!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Before the Spanish priest we stood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of San Gregorio’s brotherhood⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A shot rang out!⁠—and in her blood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My dark-eyed darling lay.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O God! I carried her beside</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Virgin’s altar where she cried⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Smiling upon me ere she died⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Adieu, my love, adieu!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I knelt before <abbr>St.</abbr> Mary’s shrine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And held my dead one’s hand in mine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Vengeance,” I cried, “O Lord, be thine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I thy minister!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I kissed her thrice and sealed my vow⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her eyes, her sea-cold lips and brow⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Farewell, my heart is dying now,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O Marta of Milrone!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then swift upon my steed I lept;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My streaming eyes the desert swept;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I saw the accursed where he crept</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Against the blood-red sun.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I galloped straight upon his track,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And never more my eyes looked back;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The world was barred with red and black;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My heart was flaming coal.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Through the delirious twilight dim</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the black night I followed him;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hills did we cross and rivers swim⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My fleet foot horse and I.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The morn burst red, a gory wound,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O’er iron hills and savage ground;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And there was never another sound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Save beat of horses’ hoofs.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Unto the murderer’s ear they said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“<em>Thou’rt of the dead! Thou’rt of the dead!</em>”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still on his stallion black he sped</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While death spurred on behind.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Fiery dust from the blasted plain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Burnt like lava in every vein;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I rode on with steady rein</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though the fierce sand-devils spun.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then to a sullen land we came,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose earth was brass, whose sky was flame;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I made it balm with her blessed name</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the land of Mexico.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>With gasp and groan my poor horse fell⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Last of all things that loved me well!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I turned my head⁠—a smoking shell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Veiled me his dying throes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But fast on vengeful foot was I;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His steed fell, too, and was left to die;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He fled where a river’s channel dry</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Made way to the rolling stream.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Red as my rage the huge sun sank.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My foe bent low on the river’s bank</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And deep of the kindly flood he drank</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While the giant stars broke forth.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then face to face and man to man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I fought him where the river ran,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While the trembling palm held up its fan</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the emerald serpents lay.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The mad, remorseless bullets broke</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From tongues of flame in the sulphur smoke;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The air was rent till the desert spoke</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the echoing hills afar.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Hot from his lips the curses burst;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He fell! The sands were slaked of thirst;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A stream in the stream ran dark at first,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the stones grew red as hearts.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I shot him where the Rio flows;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I shot him when the moon arose;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And where he lies the vulture knows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Along the Tinto River.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But where she lies to none is known</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Save to my poor heart and a lonely stone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On which I sit and weep alone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the cactus stars are white.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Where I shall lie, no man can say;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The flowers all are fallen away;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The desert is so drear and grey,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O Marta of Milrone!</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p>
						<cite>Herman Scheffauer.</cite>
					</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="jack-dempseys-grave" epub:type="z3998:song">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Jack Dempsey’s Grave</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Far out in the wilds of Oregon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On a lonely mountain side,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where Columbia’s mighty waters</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Roll down to the Ocean’s tide;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the giant fir and cedar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are imaged in the wave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O’ergrown with ferns and lichens,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I found poor Dempsey’s grave.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I found no marble monolith,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No broken shaft nor stone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Recording sixty victories</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This vanquished victor won;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No rose, no shamrock could I find,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No mortal here to tell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where sleeps in this forsaken spot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The immortal Nonpareil.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A winding, wooded canyon road</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That mortals seldom tread</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Leads up this lonely mountain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To this desert of the dead.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the western sun was sinking</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In Pacific’s golden wave;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And these solemn pines kept watching</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Over poor Jack Dempsey’s grave.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>That man of honor and of iron,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That man of heart and steel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That man who far out-classed his class</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And made mankind to feel</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Dempsey’s name and Dempsey’s fame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Should live in serried stone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is now at rest far in the West</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the wilds of Oregon.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Forgotten by ten thousand throats</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That thundered his acclaim⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forgotten by his friends and foes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That cheered his very name;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oblivion wraps his faded form,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But ages hence shall save</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The memory of that Irish lad</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That fills poor Dempsey’s grave.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O Fame, why sleeps thy favored son</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In wilds, in woods, in weeds?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And shall he ever thus sleep on⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Interred his valiant deeds?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis strange New York should thus forget</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its “bravest of the brave,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in the wilds of Oregon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unmarked, leave Dempsey’s grave.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p>
						<cite>MacMahon.</cite>
					</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="the-cattle-round-up" epub:type="z3998:song">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Cattle Round-Up</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Once more are we met for a season of pleasure,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That shall smooth from our brows every furrow of care,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the sake of old times shall we each tread a measure</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And drink to the lees in the eyes of the fair.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Once more let the hand-clasp of years past be given;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let us once more be boys and forget we are men;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let friendships the chances of fortune have riven</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be renewed and the smiling past come back again.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The past, when the prairie was big and the cattle</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were as “scary” as ever the antelope grew⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When to carry a gun, to make our spurs rattle,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to ride a blue streak was the most that we knew;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The past when we headed each year for Dodge City</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And punched up the drags on the old Chisholm Trail;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the world was all bright and the girls were all pretty,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a feller could “mav’rick” and stay out of jail.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then here’s to the eyes that like diamonds are gleaming,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And make the lamps blush that their duties are o’er;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And here’s to the lips where young love lies a-dreaming;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And here’s to the feet light as air on the floor;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And here’s to the memories⁠—fun’s sweetest sequel;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And here’s to the night we shall ever recall;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And here’s to the time⁠—time shall know not its equal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When we danced the day in at the Cattlemen’s Ball.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p>
						<cite><abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">H. D. C.</abbr> McLaclachlan.</cite>
					</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
